Act 1:1 The former account I made concerning all things, O Theophilus, which Jesus began both to do and teach,
Act 1:2 until the day in which He was taken up, after He through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom He had chosen,
Act 1:3 to whom He also presented Himself alive after His suffering by many convincing proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Act 1:4 And being assembled together with them, He commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to await for the promise of the Father, "which," He said, "you have heard from Me;
Act 1:5 for John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now."
Act 1:6 Therefore, when they had come together, they asked Him, saying, "Lord, will You at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?"
Act 1:7 And He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has placed in His own authority.
Act 1:8 But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth."
Act 1:9 Now after He said these things, while they were beholding Him, He was lifted up, and a cloud withdrew Him from their sight.
Act 1:10 And while they looked intently into heaven, while He was going, behold, two men stood along side them in white apparel,
Act 1:11 who also said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking up into heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will so come in like manner as you watched Him go into heaven."
Act 1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey.
Act 1:13 And when they had entered, they went up into the upper room where they were staying; both Peter and James and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James.
Act 1:14 These were continuing with one mind in prayer and petition, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
Act 1:15 And in those days Peter, rising up in the midst of the disciples (altogether the number of names was about a hundred and twenty), said,
Act 1:16 “Men and brothers; it was necessary for this Scripture to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus;
Act 1:17 ‘for he was numbered with us and obtained a portion in this ministry.’"
Act 1:18 (Now this man purchased a field by means of the wages of his iniquity, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his intestines gushed out.
Act 1:19 And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem; so that field is called in their own language, Akel Dama, that is, Field of Blood).
Act 1:20 For it is written in the book of Psalms: 'LET HIS HOMESTEAD BECOME DESOLATE, AND LET NO ONE DWELL IN IT'; and, 'MAY ANOTHER TAKE HIS OFFICE OF OVERSEER. '
Act 1:21 Therefore, of these men who have accompanied us in every time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
Act 1:22 beginning from the baptism of John until the day in which He was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness with us of His resurrection."
Act 1:23 And they nominated two: Joseph who is called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
Act 1:24 And they prayed and said, "You, O Lord, knower of all hearts, show whom You have chosen of these two
Act 1:25 to receive a portion in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place."
Act 1:26 And they cast their lots. And the lot fell on Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
Act 2:1 And when the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.
Act 2:2 And suddenly a sound came out of heaven, as being borne along by a violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
Act 2:3 Then there appeared to them divided tongues, as of fire, and rested on each one of them.
Act 2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in different languages, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Act 2:5 And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation of those under heaven.
Act 2:6 And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because they were hearing each one speaking in his own language.
Act 2:7 And they were all amazed and were marveling, saying to one another, “Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
Act 2:8 And how is it that we hear, each in our own  language in which we were born?
Act 2:9 Parthians and Medes and Elamites, those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Act 2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya toward Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
Act 2:11 Cretans and Arabs—we hear them speaking in our own tongues the mighty deeds of God."
Act 2:12 So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, "What does this mean?"
Act 2:13 Others were mocking and saying, "They are full of new wine."
Act 2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke out to them, "Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
Act 2:15 "For these are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is just the third hour of the day.
Act 2:16 "But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel:
Act 2:17 “AND IT SHALL BE IN THE LAST DAYS,” SAYS GOD, "THAT I WILL POUR OUT MY SPIRIT ON ALL FLESH, AND YOUR SONS AND YOUR DAUGHTERS SHALL PROPHESY; AND YOUR YOUNG MEN SHALL SEE VISIONS, AND YOUR OLD MEN SHALL DREAM DREAMS;
Act 2:18 AND ON MY MENSERVANTS AND ON MY MAIDSERVANTS I WILL POUR OUT MY SPIRIT IN THOSE DAYS; AND THEY SHALL PROPHESY.
Act 2:19 AND I WILL GIVE WONDERS IN THE HEAVEN ABOVE, AND SIGNS ON THE EARTH BELOW, BLOOD AND FIRE AND VAPOR OF SMOKE.
Act 2:20 THE SUN SHALL BE TURNED INTO DARKNESS, AND THE MOON INTO BLOOD, BEFORE THE COMING OF THE GREAT AND MAGNIFICENT DAY OF THE LORD.
Act 2:21 AND IT SHALL BE THAT EVERYONE WHO CALLS ON THE NAME OF THE LORD SHALL BE SAVED."
Act 2:22 "Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a Man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through Him in your midst, just as you yourselves also know—
Act 2:23 Him, being delivered by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you took, and by lawless hands, nailing Him to a cross, you killed Him;
Act 2:24 whom God raised, thus doing away with the labor pains of death, because it was not possible for Him to be held by it.
Act 2:25 For David says concerning Him, "I FORESAW THE LORD ALWAYS BEFORE ME, BECAUSE HE IS AT MY RIGHT HAND, THAT I MAY NOT BE SHAKEN.
Act 2:26 THEREFORE MY HEART WAS GLAD, AND MY TONGUE REJOICED; MOREOVER MY FLESH ALSO WILL DWELL IN HOPE.
Act 2:27 BECAUSE YOU WILL NOT ABANDON MY SOUL IN HADES, NOR WILL YOU ALLOW YOUR HOLY ONE TO SEE CORRUPTION.
Act 2:28 YOU HAVE MADE KNOWN TO ME THE WAYS OF LIFE; YOU WILL FILL ME FULL OF JOY WITH YOUR PRESENCE.”
Act 2:29 “Men, brothers, let me speak with boldness to you about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
Act 2:30 Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, He would raise up the Christ to seat Him on his throne,
Act 2:31 foreseeing this, he spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, ‘that His soul was not left in Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.’
Act 2:32 This Jesus God has raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
Act 2:33 Therefore having being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He poured out this which you now see and hear.
Act 2:34 For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says himself: `THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD, "SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND,
Act 2:35 TILL I MAKE YOUR ENEMIES A FOOTSTOOL FOR YOUR FEET.’
Act 2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ."
Act 2:37 Now having heard this, they were cut to the heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Men and brothers, what shall we do?"
Act 2:38 Then Peter said to them, "Repent, and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Act 2:39 For the promise is for you and for your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call."
Act 2:40 And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, "Be saved from this crooked generation."
Act 2:41 Then those who gladly received his word were baptized; and that day about three thousand souls were added.
Act 2:42 And they were continuing in the teaching of the apostles, and in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and in prayers.
Act 2:43 Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles.
Act 2:44 Now all who believed were together, and they had all things in common,
Act 2:45 and they were selling their possessions and goods, and were dividing them among all, to the degree that anyone had need.
Act 2:46 So continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they were sharing food with joy and simplicity of heart,
Act 2:47 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to the church daily those who were being saved.
Act 3:1 Now Peter and John were going up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, which was the ninth hour.
Act 3:2 And a man lame from his mother's womb was being carried, whom they would lay each day at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple;
Act 3:3 who, when he saw Peter and John about to enter into the temple, began asking for alms.
Act 3:4 And looking intently on him, Peter together with John, said, “Look at us.”
Act 3:5 And he fixed his attention on them, expecting to receive something from them.
Act 3:6 But Peter said, "Silver and gold I do not have, but that which I do have, I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk."
Act 3:7 And taking hold of him by his right hand, he raised him; and immediately his feet and ankles were strengthened.
Act 3:8 So he, leaping up, stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping, and praising God.
Act 3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
Act 3:10 Then they recognized that this was the one sitting for the alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple; and they were filled with astonishment and amazement because of that which had happened to him.
Act 3:11 And while the lame man who had been healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch which is called Solomon's, utterly astonished.
Act 3:12 So when Peter saw this, he replied to the people: "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or why look so intently at us, as though by our own power or godliness we had made him to walk?
Act 3:13 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you indeed delivered up and denied Him in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him.
Act 3:14 But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked that a murderer be released to you,
Act 3:15 and killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
Act 3:16 And on the basis of faith in His name, this one whom you observe and know, was made strong by His name. And the faith, which is by Him, has given to him this wholeness before you all.
Act 3:17 And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as your rulers did also.
Act 3:18 But those things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all His prophets, that the Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled.
Act 3:19 Repent therefore and turn back, that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord,
Act 3:20 and that He may send He who had been ordained to be your Messiah, Jesus,
Act 3:21 whom heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God has spoken by the mouth of all His holy prophets since the world began.
Act 3:22 For Moses said to the fathers, 'THE LORD OUR GOD WILL RAISE UP FOR YOU A PROPHET LIKE ME FROM YOUR BROTHERS. HIM YOU SHALL HEAR IN ALL THINGS, WHATEVER HE SAYS TO YOU.
Act 3:23 'AND IT SHALL BE THAT EVERY PERSON WHO DOES NOT HEAR THAT PROPHET SHALL BE UTTERLY DESTROYED FROM AMONG THE PEOPLE.'
Act 3:24 Yes, and all the prophets, from Samuel and his successors, as many as have spoken, have proclaimed these days.
Act 3:25 You are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, 'AND IN YOUR OFFSPRING ALL THE FAMILIES OF THE EARTH SHALL BE BLESSED.'
Act 3:26 To you first, God, having raised up His Servant Jesus, sent Him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your iniquities."
Act 4:1 Now while they were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them,
Act 4:2 being greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead.
Act 4:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
Act 4:4 However, many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of the men came to be about five thousand.
Act 4:5 Now it came to pass on the next day, that their rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together at Jerusalem,
Act 4:6 as well as Annas the high priest, Caiaphas, John, and Alexander, and as many as were of high priestly descent.
Act 4:7 And they brought them forward and began to inquire, "By what power or by what name have you done this?"
Act 4:8 Then Peter, having been filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders of Israel:
Act 4:9 If we today are being judged for a good work to a weak man, by what means he has been made well,
Act 4:10 let it be known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name this man stands here before you whole.
Act 4:11 This is the 'STONE WHICH WAS REJECTED BY YOU, the builders, WHICH BECAME THE CHIEF CORNERSTONE.'
Act 4:12 Nor is there salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven which has been given among men by which we must be saved."
Act 4:13 Now when they observed the boldness of Peter and John, and understood that they were uneducated and untrained men, they marveled. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
Act 4:14 But seeing the man that had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against them.
Act 4:15 And they commanded them to go away outside the council, and began to confer among themselves,
Act 4:16 saying, "What shall we do to these men? For indeed, that a known sign has come to pass by them is evident to all those who are dwelling in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
Act 4:17 But lest it be spread further among the people, let us threaten them with a threat, to speak no longer in this name."
Act 4:18 And summoning them, they commanded them not to speak at all nor to teach in the name of Jesus.
Act 4:19 But Peter and John answered them and said, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than God, you be the judge.
Act 4:20 For we can do none other but to speak the things which we have seen and heard.
Act 4:21 So having threatened them further, they released them, finding no way of punishing them, on account of the people, because they all were glorifying God over that which had occurred.
Act 4:22 For the man was over forty, on whom had come about this sign of healing.
Act 4:23 And being released, they came to their own, and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them.
Act 4:24 So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one mind and said: "Lord, You are God, who made heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them,
Act 4:25 who by the mouth of Your servant David have said: 'WHY DID THE NATIONS RAGE, AND THE PEOPLE CONSPIRED VAIN THINGS?
Act 4:26 THE KINGS OF THE EARTH TOOK THEIR STAND, AND THE RULERS WERE ASSEMBLED TOGETHER AGAINST THE LORD AND AGAINST HIS CHRIST.'
Act 4:27 For truly they were assembled against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel,
Act 4:28 to do all that Your hand and Your counsel foreordained to come to pass.
Act 4:29 Now, Lord, look upon their threats, and grant to Your servants that with all boldness they may speak Your word,
Act 4:30 by extending Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may come about through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus."
Act 4:31 And when they had prayed, the place where they were gathered was shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness.
Act 4:32 Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul; neither did anyone say that any of the things belonging to him was his own, but they had all things in common.
Act 4:33 And with great power the apostles were giving forth their witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all.
Act 4:34 Nor was there anyone needy among them; for all who were owners of lands or houses were selling them, and were bringing the proceeds of the things which had been sold,
Act 4:35 and were placing them beside the feet of the apostles; and they were distributing to each, to the degree that anyone had need.
Act 4:36 And Joses, who was also named Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Act 4:37 who, possessing a field, sold it and brought the money and placed it beside the feet of the apostles.
Act 5:1 But a certain man named Ananias, together with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property.
Act 5:2 And he kept back for himself from the price, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part and placed it beside the feet of the apostles.
Act 5:3 But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart for you to lie to the Holy Spirit, and for you to keep back for yourself from the price of the land?
Act 5:4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain yours? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why have you purposed this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God."
Act 5:5 Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and died. And great fear came upon all those who heard of it.
Act 5:6 And the young men rose up and covered him up, carried him out, and buried him.
Act 5:7 And it happened about three hours later, that his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
Act 5:8 And Peter said to her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much?" She said, "Yes, for so much."
Act 5:9 Then Peter said to her, "Why is it that it was agreed by you to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they shall carry you out as well."
Act 5:10 Then immediately she fell down beside his feet and died. And the young men came in and found her dead, and carrying her out, buried her with her husband.
Act 5:11 And great fear fell on all the church, and upon all those who were hearing these things.
Act 5:12 Now by the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders took place among the people. And they were all with one mind in Solomon's Porch.
Act 5:13 But none of the rest dared join them, but the people were magnifying them.
Act 5:14 And more than ever, believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
Act 5:15 so that they were bringing the sick and placing them on couches and pallets, so that as Peter was passing, at least his shadow might fall on some of them.
Act 5:16 And also the multitude from the surrounding cities were coming together into Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those who were tormented by unclean spirits, who were all being healed.
Act 5:17 Then the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy,
Act 5:18 and laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the public prison.
Act 5:19 But an angel of the Lord during the night opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out, he said,
Act 5:20 “Go, stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life."
Act 5:21 And when they heard that, they entered the temple about daybreak and were teaching. Now when the high priest and those with him arrived, they called together the council, even all the elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison for them to be brought.
Act 5:22 But when the attendants arrived, and did not find them in the jail, they returned and announced,
Act 5:23 saying, "Indeed we found the prison shut in all security, and the guards standing before the doors; but when we opened them, we found no one inside!"
Act 5:24 Now when they heard these words, both the high priest and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests, they were greatly perplexed about them, as to what would come of this.
Act 5:25 So one came and reported to them, saying, "Behold, the men whom you put in jail are standing in the temple and teaching the people!"
Act 5:26 Then the captain went with the officers and brought them without violence, for they were afraid of the people, lest they be stoned.
Act 5:27 And they brought them, and set them before the council. And the high priest asked them,
Act 5:28 saying, "Did we not give you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you want to bring on us the blood of this Man!"
Act 5:29 But Peter and the apostles answered, and said: "We must obey God rather than men.
Act 5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree.
Act 5:31 Him God has exalted to His right hand as Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
Act 5:32 And we are His witnesses of these words, and so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him."
Act 5:33 But when they heard this, they were infuriated and were resolving to kill them.
Act 5:34 Then someone in the council stood up, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, and commanded them to put the apostles outside for a short time.
Act 5:35 And he said to them: "Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves to these men, as to what you are about to do.
Act 5:36 For before these days, Theudas rose up, claiming himself to be someone, to whom was joined a number of men, about four hundred. He was slain, and all who obeyed him were scattered and came to nothing.
Act 5:37 After this arose Judas the Galilean, in the days of the census, and caused considerable number of people after him to revolt. He too perished, and as many as were persuaded by him were scattered.
Act 5:38 And now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone; for if this counsel or this work is of men, it will fail;
Act 5:39 but if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it—lest you even be found fighting against God."
Act 5:40 And they were persuaded by him, and when they called the apostles and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and released them.
Act 5:41 Then they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing because they were counted worthy to be dishonored on behalf of the name of Jesus.
Act 5:42 And daily in the temple, and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and proclaiming the gospel of Jesus the Christ.
Act 6:1 Now in those days, as the disciples were increasing in number, there arose a complaint from the Greek speaking Jews against the Aramaic speaking Jews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution.
Act 6:2 Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, "It is not pleasing to us that we should forsake the word of God to serve tables.
Act 6:3 Therefore, brothers, select seven men from among you, of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint for this need.
Act 6:4 But we will faithfully engage in prayer and in the ministry of the word."
Act 6:5 And the word was pleasing before all the congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch,
Act 6:6 whom they set before the apostles; and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
Act 6:7 And the word of God was growing, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was being multiplied exceedingly, and a great many of the priests were obeying the faith.
Act 6:8 And Stephen, full of faith and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people.
Act 6:9 But there arose some men from what was called the Synagogue of the Freedmen, both of the Cyrenians and the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, debating with Stephen.
Act 6:10 And they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke.
Act 6:11 Then they secretly instigated men to say, "We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God."
Act 6:12 And they aroused the people and the elders and the scribes; and coming upon him, they seized him, and led him to the council.
Act 6:13 And they put forward false witnesses saying, "This man does not cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law;
Act 6:14 for we have heard him say that this Nazarene, Jesus, will destroy this place and change the customs which Moses handed down to us."
Act 6:15 And looking intently at him, all those who sat in the council saw his face like the face of an angel.
Act 7:1 Then the high priest said, "Are these things so?"
Act 7:2 And he said, "Men, brothers and fathers, listen: The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran,
Act 7:3 and said to him, 'GO OUT FROM YOUR LAND AND FROM YOUR RELATIVES, AND COME TO A LAND WHICH I WILL SHOW YOU.'
Act 7:4 Then he went forth from the land of the Chaldeans and settled down in Haran. And from there, after his father was dead, He moved him to this land in which you now dwell.
Act 7:5 And He gave him no inheritance in it, not even a place to put his foot on, and He promised to give it to him for a possession, and to his descendants after him, though he had no child.
Act 7:6 But God spoke in this way: that his offspring would dwell in a foreign land, and that they would enslave them, and they would treat them badly four hundred years.
Act 7:7 ‘AND THE NATION WHICH THEY WILL SERVE, I WILL JUDGE,' said God, 'AND AFTER THESE THINGS THEY WILL COME OUT AND SERVE ME IN THIS PLACE.'
Act 7:8 Then He gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham was the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob was the father of the twelve patriarchs.
Act 7:9 "And the patriarchs, being jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt; and God was with him,
Act 7:10 and delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and he made him ruler over Egypt and all his house.
Act 7:11 “Now a famine came over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our fathers could find no provisions.
Act 7:12 And Jacob, hearing that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first.
Act 7:13 And on the second visit Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh.
Act 7:14 Then Joseph sent and summoned his father Jacob and all his relatives, seventy-five people.
Act 7:15 So Jacob went down to Egypt; and he died, he and our fathers.
Act 7:16 And they were brought back to Shechem, and were placed in the tomb which Abraham bought for a price of silver from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem.
Act 7:17 “Now when the time of the promise drew near which God swore to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt,
Act 7:18 until there arose a different king, who did not know Joseph.
Act 7:19 This king took advantage of our race, and oppressed our fathers, to make their babies exposed, in order that they might not preserve their lives.
Act 7:20 At this time Moses was born, and he was well pleasing to God; who was brought up in his father's house for three months.
Act 7:21 But when he was exposed, the daughter of Pharaoh took him up, and brought him up for herself as a son.
Act 7:22 And Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in words and deeds.
Act 7:23 Now when he had turned forty years old, it came into his heart to look upon his brothers, the sons of Israel.
Act 7:24 And seeing someone being wronged, he retaliated, and avenged him who was being oppressed, and struck the Egyptian.
Act 7:25 For he supposed that his brothers understood that God was giving to them deliverance by his hand, but they did not understand.
Act 7:26 And on the next day he appeared to them as they were fighting, and tried to reconcile them to peace, saying, 'Men, you are brothers; why do you wrong one another?'
Act 7:27 "But the one wronging his neighbor pushed him away, saying, 'WHO APPOINTED YOU A RULER AND A JUDGE OVER US?
Act 7:28 'DO YOU DESIRE TO KILL ME AS YOU KILLED THE EGYPTIAN YESTERDAY?'
Act 7:29 Now Moses, at this saying, fled and became a stranger in the land of Midian, where he was the father of two sons.
Act 7:30 “And forty years having been fulfilled, an Angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire in a bush, in the wilderness of Mount Sinai.
Act 7:31 And Moses, seeing it, marveled at the sight; and as he approached it to observe closely, the voice of the Lord came to him,
Act 7:32 saying, 'I AM THE GOD OF YOUR FATHERS—THE GOD OF ABRAHAM, AND THE GOD OF ISAAC, AND THE GOD OF JACOB.' And Moses was trembling and was not bold enough to look closely.
Act 7:33 'Then the Lord said to him, "REMOVE YOUR SANDALS FROM YOUR FEET, FOR THE PLACE WHERE YOU STAND IS HOLY GROUND.
Act 7:34 "I HAVE CERTAINLY SEEN THE MISTREATMENT OF MY PEOPLE IN EGYPT; I HAVE HEARD THEIR GROANING AND I HAVE COME DOWN TO DELIVER THEM. AND NOW COME, I WILL SEND YOU TO EGYPT." '
Act 7:35 “This Moses whom they denied, saying, 'WHO APPOINTED YOU A RULER AND A JUDGE?' This man God sent as a ruler and redeemer by the hand of the Angel who appeared to him in the bush.
Act 7:36 He led them out, and did wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and at the Red Sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
Act 7:37 "This is that Moses who said to the sons of Israel, 'THE LORD OUR GOD WILL RAISE UP FOR YOU A PROPHET LIKE ME FROM YOUR BROTHERS.’
Act 7:38 This is he who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the Angel who was speaking to him on Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, the one who received the living oracles to give to us,
Act 7:39 whom our fathers did not desire to be obedient, but they rejected him and returned in their heart back to Egypt,
Act 7:40 saying to Aaron, 'MAKE FOR US GODS WHO WILL GO BEFORE US; AS FOR THIS MOSES WHO LED US OUT OF THE LAND OF EGYPT, WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO HIM.'
Act 7:41 And they made a calf in those days, offered a sacrifice to the idol, and were rejoicing in the works of their hands.
Act 7:42 But God turned away and gave them over to serve the host of heaven, just as it is written in the book of the Prophets: 'DID YOU OFFER ME SLAUGHTERED ANIMALS AND SACRIFICES DURING FORTY YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS, O HOUSE OF ISRAEL?
Act 7:43 INDEED YOU CARRIED UP THE TABERNACLE OF MOLOCH, AND THE STAR OF YOUR GOD REMPHAN, THE IMAGES WHICH YOU MADE TO WORSHIP THEM; AND I WILL RELOCATE YOU BEYOND BABYLON.'
Act 7:44 “The tabernacle of the testimony was with our fathers in the wilderness, just as the One speaking to Moses commanded him, to make it according to the pattern that he had seen,
Act 7:45 which also our fathers, having received in turn, also brought in with Joshua into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers until the days of David,
Act 7:46 who found favor before God and asked opportunity to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.
Act 7:47 But Solomon built Him a house.
Act 7:48 However, the Most High does not dwell in hand-made sanctuaries, just as the prophet says:
Act 7:49 'HEAVEN IS MY THRONE, AND THE EARTH IS MY FOOTSTOOL. WHAT KIND OF HOUSE WILL YOU BUILD FOR ME? SAYS THE LORD, OR WHAT IS THE PLACE OF MY REST?
Act 7:50 HAS NOT MY HAND MADE ALL THESE THINGS?'
Act 7:51 "You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears! You always resist the Holy Spirit; as your fathers did, you also do.
Act 7:52 Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who foretold about the coming of the Righteous One, of whom you have now become betrayers and murderers,
Act 7:53 who have received the law as the ordinances of angels and you did not keep it."
Act 7:54 Now hearing these things they were infuriated in their hearts, and were gnashing their teeth against him.
Act 7:55 But being full of the Holy Spirit, looking intently into heaven, he saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God,
Act 7:56 and he said, "Behold! I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!"
Act 7:57 Then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one purpose;
Act 7:58 and casting him outside the city, they stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes beside the feet of a young man named Saul.
Act 7:59 And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."
Act 7:60 Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, "Lord, do not charge them with this sin." And having said this, he fell asleep.”
Act 8:1 Now Saul was agreeing with them in his murder. And in that day there arose a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and they all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Act 8:2 And godly men buried Stephen, and they mourned deeply for him.
Act 8:3 But Saul was doing injury to the church, going in from house to house, and dragging away both men and women, and putting them in prison.
Act 8:4 Therefore those who were scattered went about preaching the word.
Act 8:5 And Philip, going down to a city of Samaria, was preaching to them the Christ.
Act 8:6 And the crowds with one accord gave heed to the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the signs which he was doing.
Act 8:7 For many of those having unclean spirits had cried out with a loud voice, and the spirits came out; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed.
Act 8:8 And there was great joy in that city.
Act 8:9 Now a certain man named Simon was previously in the city practicing magic and astounding the people of Samaria, claiming himself to be someone great,
Act 8:10 to whom they gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, "This man is the great power of God."
Act 8:11 But they gave heed to him because of the long time that he had astonished them with the magic arts.
Act 8:12 But when they believed Philip as he preached the good news of the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Act 8:13 Then Simon himself also believed; and having been baptized, he was continuing with Philip, and observing miracles and signs occurring, he was astounded.
Act 8:14 Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John,
Act 8:15 who, coming down, prayed concerning them in order that they might receive the Holy Spirit.
Act 8:16 For He had not yet fallen upon any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of Christ Jesus.
Act 8:17 Then they laid hands upon them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
Act 8:18 Now when Simon observed that by the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money,
Act 8:19 saying, "Give me this power also, that on whom ever I lay my hands he may receive the Holy Spirit."
Act 8:20 But Peter said to him, "Your money perish with you, because you thought to acquire the gift of God with money!
Act 8:21 You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.
Act 8:22 Repent therefore from this your wickedness, and make petition to God, if perhaps the intent of your heart will be forgiven you.
Act 8:23 For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and the bond of unrighteousness."
Act 8:24 Then Simon answered and said, "Pray to the Lord for me, that none of the things which you have spoken may come upon me."
Act 8:25 Then solemnly bearing witness to and speaking the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
Act 8:26 Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, "Get up and go toward the south on the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza." This is desolate.
Act 8:27 So he got up and went; and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch, a court official of Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasury, and had come to Jerusalem worshipping,
Act 8:28 and he was returning. And sitting upon his chariot, he was reading the prophet Isaiah.
Act 8:29 Then the Spirit said to Philip, "Go near, and join yourself to this chariot."
Act 8:30 And Phillip, running up to it, heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?"
Act 8:31 And he said, "How can I, unless someone helps me?" And he urged Philip to come up and sit with him.
Act 8:32 Now the portion of the Scripture which he was reading was this: "HE WAS LED AS A SHEEP TO THE SLAUGHTER; AND AS A LAMB BEFORE ITS SHEARER IS SILENT, SO HE OPENED NOT HIS MOUTH.
Act 8:33 IN HIS HUMILIATION HIS JUSTICE WAS TAKEN AWAY, AND WHO WILL RECOUNT HIS GENERATION? FOR HIS LIFE IS TAKEN AWAY FROM THE EARTH."
Act 8:34 So the eunuch answered Philip and said, "Please tell me, of whom does the prophet say this; of himself, or of someone else?"
Act 8:35 And Philip, opening his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached the good news about Jesus to him.
Act 8:36 Now as they were going down the road, they came upon some water. And the eunuch said, "Behold, here is water: what prevents me from being baptized?"
Act 8:37 (This verse omitted in Majority Text)
Act 8:38 And he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, both Phillip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
Act 8:39 Now when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught up Philip, and the eunuch did not see him any longer; and he went on his way rejoicing.
Act 8:40 But Philip was found at Azotus. And as he passed through, he preached the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea.
Act 9:1 Then Saul, still breathing murderous threats against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
Act 9:2 and requested from him letters of authority to the synagogues of Damascus, that if he should find any who were of the Way, both men or women, he might bring them, having been bound, to Jerusalem.
Act 9:3 And as he was going, it came about that he drew near to Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven.
Act 9:4 And falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?"
Act 9:5 And he said, "Who are You, Lord?" And the Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
Act 9:6 "But rise up and enter into the city, and it will be spoken to you what you must do."
Act 9:7 And the men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one.
Act 9:8 And Saul got up from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw no one; and leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus.
Act 9:9 And he was three days not seeing, and neither ate nor drank.
Act 9:10 Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias." And he said, "Behold I am here, Lord."
Act 9:11 And the Lord said to him, "Arise and go to Straight Street, and seek out in the house of Judas a man named Saul, of Tarsus; for behold, he is praying.
Act 9:12 And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him, so that he might see again."
Act 9:13 But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how many wicked things he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem;
Act 9:14 and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who are calling on Your name."
Act 9:15 But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen vessel to Me to bear My name before Gentiles and kings, and the sons of Israel.
Act 9:16 For I will show him all the things that he must suffer for My name's sake."
Act 9:17 And Ananias departed and entered the house; and putting his hands on him, he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord has sent me, the One who appeared to you in the way which you were coming, so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit."
Act 9:18 And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he could see again; and he got up and was baptized.
Act 9:19 And when he had received food, he was strengthened. Now Saul was with the disciples in Damascus three days.
Act 9:20 And immediately in the synagogues he was proclaiming Christ, that He is the Son of God.
Act 9:21 And all those who heard were astounded, and were saying, "Is this not the one who destroyed those who called on this name in Jerusalem, and has come here for that purpose, so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?"
Act 9:22 But Saul all the more was growing strong, and was confounding the Jews who were dwelling in Damascus, proving that Jesus was the Christ.
Act 9:23 Now when many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him.
Act 9:24 But their plot became known to Saul. And they closely watched the city gates both day and night, in order that they might kill him.
Act 9:25 But the disciples, taking him by night, they let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
Act 9:26 Now when Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; but they all were afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.
Act 9:27 But Barnabas, taking hold of him, brought him to the apostles, and related to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he spoke boldly in the name of Jesus.
Act 9:28 So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem,
Act 9:29 and speaking boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and he was speaking and disputing with the Greek-speaking Jews, but they were attempting to kill him.
Act 9:30 But the brothers, learning about it, brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.
Act 9:31 Then the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied.
Act 9:32 Now it came to pass, as Peter went through all parts of the country, that he went down to the saints who were dwelling in Lydda.
Act 9:33 And he found there a certain man named Aeneas, who had been confined to a bed for eight years, who was paralyzed.
Act 9:34 And Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Arise and make your bed." Then he arose immediately.
Act 9:35 And all who were dwelling at Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
Act 9:36 Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which, being translated, means Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable giving which she was doing.
Act 9:37 But it came about in those days that she became ill and died; and they washed her, and put her in an upper room.
Act 9:38 Now since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter was in Joppa, sent to him, urging him not to delay in coming to them.
Act 9:39 And arising, Peter went with them. When he arrived, they took him into the upper room, and all the widows stood beside him weeping, showing him tunics and cloaks which Dorcas was making, while she was with them.
Act 9:40 But Peter, having put them all outside, knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, "Tabitha, arise." And she opened her eyes, and seeing Peter, she sat up.
Act 9:41 And giving to her his hand, he raised her up; and when he called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
Act 9:42 And it became known throughout all of Joppa, and many believed on the Lord.
Act 9:43 And he stayed for some time in Joppa with a tanner named Simon.
Act 10:1 Now there was a certain man in Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment,
Act 10:2 a devout man, and one that feared God, together with all his household, who often gave alms to the people, and making petition to God always.
Act 10:3 About the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God coming to him and saying to him, "Cornelius!"
Act 10:4 And looking intently at him and becoming fearful he said, "What is it, lord?" And he said to him, "Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God.
Act 10:5 Now send men to Joppa, and send for Simon whose surname is Peter.
Act 10:6 He is staying as a guest with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is beside the sea.”
Act 10:7 Now when the angel who had been speaking to Cornelius had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually.
Act 10:8 And explaining to them everything, he sent them to Joppa.
Act 10:9 Now on the next day, as they were traveling and drawing near to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray, at about the sixth hour.
Act 10:10 And he became hungry and wanted to eat; but while they were preparing, he fell into a trance.
Act 10:11 And he saw heaven having been opened, and descending to him a certain vessel like a great sheet, having been bound at the four corners, and being let down upon the ground,
Act 10:12 in which were all the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild animals, and the reptiles, and the birds of the air.
Act 10:13 And there came a voice to him, saying, "Arise, Peter; kill and eat."
Act 10:14 But Peter said, "By no means, Lord! For never did I eat anything common or unclean."
Act 10:15 And a voice spoke again the second time to him, "That which God has made clean, you must not make common."
Act 10:16 And this happened three times, and again the vessel was taken up into heaven.
Act 10:17 Now as Peter was very perplexed within himself as to what the vision which he had seen might mean, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius, having found by inquiry the house of Simon, stood at the gateway.
Act 10:18 And they called and asked whether Simon, whose surname was Peter, was lodging there.
Act 10:19 Now while Peter pondered about the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, men are seeking you.
Act 10:20 Arise therefore, go down and go with them, without wavering; for I have sent them."
Act 10:21 And Peter, going down to the men, said, "Behold, I am he whom you seek. Why have you come?”
Act 10:22 And they said, "Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and fearing God, having a good reputation among all the nation of the Jews, was given a revelation by a holy angel to send for you to his house, and to hear a message from you."
Act 10:23 Therefore he invited them in and received them as guests. Now on the next day Peter went forth with them, and some brothers from Joppa went with him.
Act 10:24 And on the next day they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his relatives and close friends.
Act 10:25 Now when it happened that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and fell at his feet and worshiped him.
Act 10:26 But Peter raised him up, saying, "Stand up; I too am just a man."
Act 10:27 And talking with him he went in, and found many having gathered,
Act 10:28 and he said to them, "You know how unlawful it is for a Jewish man to associate with or to approach a Gentile; and yet God has shown to me that I should call no man common or unclean;
Act 10:29 therefore also without objecting, I came when I was sent for. I ask, then, for what reason have you sent for me?"
Act 10:30 So Cornelius said, "From the fourth day until this hour I was fasting, and at the ninth hour I was praying in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in shining clothing,
Act 10:31 and said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms are remembered before God.
Act 10:32 Send therefore to Joppa and summon Simon, whose surname is Peter. He is staying as a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, beside the sea. When he arrives, he will speak to you.'
Act 10:33 "Therefore immediately I sent to you, and you have done well to come. Now then we are all present before God, to hear all the things having been commanded you by God."
Act 10:34 And Peter, opening his mouth, said: "In truth I comprehend that God is not One to show partiality.
Act 10:35 But in every nation, he that fears Him and works righteousness is acceptable to Him.
Act 10:36 The word which God sent to the sons of Israel, preaching the good news of peace through Jesus Christ--He being Lord of all--
Act 10:37 you know, the word coming to be throughout all of Judea, and beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed,
Act 10:38 Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those who were oppressed by the devil, because God was with Him.
Act 10:39 And we are witnesses of all things which He did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they also killed by hanging on a tree.
Act 10:40 This Jesus God raised up on the third day, and caused Him to be seen,
Act 10:41 not to all the people, but to witnesses, who having been chosen beforehand by God, even to us, who ate and drank together with Him after He arose from the dead.
Act 10:42 And He commanded us to proclaim to the people, and to testify solemnly that He is the One having been appointed by God to be Judge of the living and the dead.
Act 10:43 To Him all the prophets bear witness, that through His name, everyone believing in Him shall receive forgiveness of sins."
Act 10:44 While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word.
Act 10:45 And those of the circumcision who believed were astounded, as many as had come with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also.
Act 10:46 For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter answered,
Act 10:47 “Surely no one can forbid water, can he, that these should not be baptized who received the Holy Spirit just as we have?"
Act 10:48 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay for some days.
Act 11:1 Now the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.
Act 11:2 And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision were contending with him,
Act 11:3 saying, "You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them!"
Act 11:4 But Peter, beginning to speak, was setting forth to them in order, saying,
Act 11:5 "I was in the city of Joppa praying; and in a trance I saw a vision, a certain vessel coming down like a great sheet, being lowered by the four corners from heaven; and it came as far as me;
Act 11:6 on which, looking intently, I was contemplating, and I saw the four-footed animals of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the reptiles, and the birds of the air.
Act 11:7 And I heard a voice saying to me, 'Arise, Peter; kill and eat.'
Act 11:8 "But I said, 'By no means, Lord! For nothing common or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.'
Act 11:9 "But the voice answered me a second time from heaven, 'What God has made clean, you must not make common.'
Act 11:10 "And this was done three times, and again all things were drawn up into heaven.
Act 11:11 And behold, immediately three men stood before the house in which I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
Act 11:12 And the Spirit told me to go with them, without wavering. Now these six brothers also went with me, and we entered into the house of the man.
Act 11:13 And he related to us how he had seen the angel in his house, standing and saying to him, 'Send men to Joppa, and send for Simon whose surname is Peter,
Act 11:14 ‘who will speak words to you by which you and all your household shall be saved.'
Act 11:15 "And when I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as also on us in the beginning.
Act 11:16 And I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, 'John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'
Act 11:17 "If then God has given to them the same gift as He gave to us, when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to hinder God?"
Act 11:18 And hearing these things, they remained silent, and they glorified God, saying, "Then God has also granted even the Gentiles repentance unto life."
Act 11:19 Then those who were scattered because of the tribulation coming about over Stephen, went about as far as Phoenicia, and Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews only.
Act 11:20 But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who, entering into Antioch spoke to the Greek speaking Jews, preaching the good news of the Lord Jesus.
Act 11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed, and turned to the Lord.
Act 11:22 And the word about them was heard in the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent forth Barnabas to go as far as Antioch;
Act 11:23 who, arriving and seeing the grace of God, was glad, and encouraged them all with purpose of heart to continue with the Lord,
Act 11:24 for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord.
Act 11:25 And Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul,
Act 11:26 and having found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came about that for a whole year they assembled with the church and instructed many people. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
Act 11:27 Now in these days prophets went down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
Act 11:28 And rising up, one of them named Agabus, foretold by the Spirit of a great famine about to happen in all the world, which also came to pass in the time of Claudius Caesar.
Act 11:29 Then the disciples, each according to his ability, determined as a ministry to send relief to the brothers dwelling in Judea;
Act 11:30 which they also did, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Act 12:1 Now at that time Herod the king put forth his hands to harm some from the church.
Act 12:2 And he put to death James the brother of John with the sword.
Act 12:3 And seeing that it was pleasing to the Jews, he proceeded further to arrest Peter also (these were during the days of Unleavened Bread),
Act 12:4 whom also seizing, he put him in prison, and handed him over to four four-man squads of soldiers to guard him, planning after the Passover to bring him again to the people.
Act 12:5 Therefore Peter was kept in prison; but earnest prayer was being made by the church to God on his behalf.
Act 12:6 But when Herod was about to bring him forth, on that night Peter was sleeping, between two soldiers, having been bound with two chains; and guards before the door were keeping the prison.
Act 12:7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood there, and a light shined in the prison room; and striking the side of Peter, he roused him saying, "Arise quickly!" And his chains fell away from his hands.
Act 12:8 And the angel said to him, "Gird yourself and put on your sandals"; and he did so. And he said to him, "Put on your cloak and follow me."
Act 12:9 And going out, he was following him, and did not know that the thing taking place by the angel was real, but he was thinking that he was seeing a vision.
Act 12:10 And going though the first and the second guard posts, they came to the iron gate which leads into the city, which was opened to them of its own accord; and going out, they went forward one street, and immediately the angel withdrew from him.
Act 12:11 And Peter, having come to himself, said, "Now I know truly that the Lord has sent forth His angel, and has delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Jews."
Act 12:12 And realizing this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where a considerable number were gathered together and were praying.
Act 12:13 And when Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a servant girl came to answer, named Rhoda.
Act 12:14 When she recognized Peter's voice, because of her gladness she did not open the gate, but running in, she announced that Peter stood at the gate.
Act 12:15 But they said to her, "You are mad!" Yet she kept insisting that it was so. So they said, "It is his angel."
Act 12:16 But Peter was continuing knocking; and opening the door they saw him, and were astounded.
Act 12:17 And motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he related to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, "Tell these things to James and to the brothers." And going out, he went to another place.
Act 12:18 Now when day came, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers, as to what had become of Peter.
Act 12:19 And Herod, seeking for him and not finding him, he examined the guards, and commanded that they be executed. And going down from Judea to Caesarea, he was spending time there.
Act 12:20 Now Herod was very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon; and with one purpose they came to him, and persuading Blastus, the one over the king's bedroom, they asked for peace, because their country was fed from the king's country.
Act 12:21 And on an appointed day Herod, clothing himself with royal apparel, and sitting on the judgment seat, was delivering an address to them.
Act 12:22 And the crowds kept calling out, "This is the voice of a god and not of a man!"
Act 12:23 Then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God. And he was eaten by worms and died.
Act 12:24 But the word of God increased and multiplied.
Act 12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, having fulfilled their ministry, taking along with them John also, whose surname was Mark.
Act 13:1 Now there were some in the church being in Antioch who were prophets and teachers: both Barnabas, and Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Act 13:2 Now as they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Now separate to Me Barnabas and Saul for the work which I have called them."
Act 13:3 Then, fasting and praying, and laying their hands on them, they sent them away.
Act 13:4 So these two, having been sent forth by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus.
Act 13:5 And arriving in Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had John as their assistant.
Act 13:6 And going across the island as far as Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew whose name was Bar-Jesus,
Act 13:7 who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God.
Act 13:8 But Elymas the sorcerer (for so his name is translated) resisted them, seeking to turn away the proconsul from the faith.
Act 13:9 But Saul, who also is called Paul, was filled with the Holy Spirit, and gazing intently at him,
Act 13:10 he said, "O full of all guile and all craft, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight ways of the Lord?
Act 13:11 And now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a season." And immediately a mistiness and darkness fell upon him, and going about, he sought someone to lead him by the hand.
Act 13:12 Then when the proconsul saw what had happened, he believed, being amazed at the teaching of the Lord.
Act 13:13 Now Paul and his companions put to sea from Paphos, and came to Perga of Pamphylia; But John deserted them and returned to Jerusalem.
Act 13:14 But they went from Perga, and arrived in Antioch of Pisidia, and entering into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, they sat down.
Act 13:15 Now after the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the synagogue leaders sent to them, saying, "Men and brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, speak.”
Act 13:16 And Paul, arising and motioning with his hand, said, "Men, Israelites, and you who fear God, listen:
Act 13:17 The God of this people chose our fathers, and lifting up the people during their sojourn in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm brought them out from it.
Act 13:18 Now for a time of about forty years He put up with them in the wilderness.
Act 13:19 And destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, He gave their land to them as an inheritance.
Act 13:20 And after these things, for about four hundred and fifty years, He gave them judges until the time of Samuel the prophet.
Act 13:21 And then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
Act 13:22 And removing him, He raised up for them David as king, to whom He also said bearing witness, 'I HAVE FOUND DAVID THE SON OF JESSE, TO BE A MAN AFTER MY OWN HEART, WHO WILL DO ALL MY WILL.'
Act 13:23 God, from the seed of this man, according to the promise, has brought to Israel salvation,
Act 13:24 after John had first proclaimed before His coming, the baptism of repentance to Israel.
Act 13:25 Now as John was finishing his course, he said, 'Whom do you suppose me to be? I am not He. But behold, there comes One after me, the sandal of whose feet I am not worthy to loosen.'
Act 13:26 "Men, brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to you the message of this salvation has been sent.
Act 13:27 For those dwelling in Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they did not know Him, nor the voices of the Prophets which are read according to each Sabbath, condemning him, they fulfilled the Scriptures.
Act 13:28 And finding no cause for death, they asked Pilate that He be executed.
Act 13:29 And when they finished all the things having been written about Him, taking Him down from the tree, they put Him in a tomb.
Act 13:30 But God raised Him from the dead;
Act 13:31 who appeared for many days more to those going up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are His witnesses to the people.
Act 13:32 And we proclaim to you the good news of the promise which was made to the fathers,
Act 13:33 that God has fulfilled this promise for us to their children, when He raised up Jesus, as it is also written in the second Psalm: 'YOU ARE MY SON, TODAY I HAVE BEGOTTEN YOU.'
Act 13:34 And that He raised Him from the dead, no longer being about to return to corruption, thus He has said: 'I WILL GIVE YOU THE HOLY AND SURE BLESSINGS OF DAVID.'
Act 13:35 Therefore also in another Psalm He says, 'YOU WILL NOT ALLOW YOUR HOLY ONE TO SEE CORRUPTION.'
Act 13:36 For David indeed in his own generation, having served by the purpose of God, died, and was buried with his fathers, and saw corruption;
Act 13:37 but He whom God raised up did not see corruption.
Act 13:38 Therefore let it be known to you, brothers, that through this Man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you,
Act 13:39 and from all things from which you could not (by the Law of Moses) be justified, by Him everyone that believes is justified.
Act 13:40 Watch therefore, lest there come upon you that which was spoken of in the prophets:
Act 13:41 "BEHOLD, YOU DESPISERS, AND MARVEL AND PERISH! FOR I WILL WORK A WORK IN YOUR DAYS WHICH YOU WILL BY NO MEANS BELIEVE, THOUGH ONE WERE TO DECLARE IT TO YOU.' "
Act 13:42 Now as the Jews were going out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be spoken to them the next Sabbath.
Act 13:43 And when the synagogue service was broken up, many of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
Act 13:44 On the coming Sabbath, almost all the city was assembled to hear the word of God.
Act 13:45 And the Jews, seeing the crowds, were filled with jealousy and spoke against the things being said by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.
Act 13:46 But Paul and Barnabas, speaking boldly said, "It was necessary for the word of God to be spoken to you first; but since you thrust it away, and judge yourselves not worthy of eternal life; behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
Act 13:47 For so the Lord has commanded us: 'I HAVE SET YOU TO BE A LIGHT OF THE NATIONS, THAT YOU SHOULD BE FOR SALVATION TO THE END OF THE EARTH.' "
Act 13:48 Now when the Gentiles heard this, they rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
Act 13:49 And the word of the Lord was being spread throughout all the region.
Act 13:50 But the Jews incited the devout and prominent women and the leading men of the city, and raised up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and cast them out from their borders.
Act 13:51 But shaking off the dust from their feet against them, they went to Iconium.
Act 13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
Act 14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium that they went in together into the synagogue of the Jews, and they spoke in a way so that a great multitude, both of the Jews and of the Greeks, believed.
Act 14:2 But the disbelieving Jews aroused and embittered the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers.
Act 14:3 Therefore they spent a considerable time there, speaking boldly in the Lord, who was bearing witness to the word of His grace, giving signs and wonders to take place by their hands.
Act 14:4 And the multitude of the city was divided: and some were with the Jews, and others with the apostles.
Act 14:5 And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews, together with their rulers, to mistreat and to stone them,
Act 14:6 they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and to the surrounding region.
Act 14:7 And there, they were preaching the gospel.
Act 14:8 And a certain man in Lystra, powerless in his feet, was sitting, lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked.
Act 14:9 This man heard Paul speaking; who, gazing intently on him and seeing that he had faith to be healed,
Act 14:10 said with a loud voice, "Stand up straight on your feet!" And he was jumping and walking about.
Act 14:11 And the crowds, seeing what Paul had done, raised their voice, saying in the Lycaonian language, "The gods have been made like men and have come down to us!"
Act 14:12 And Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, since he was the leader in speaking.
Act 14:13 And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was before their city, bearing bulls and garlands to the gates, together with the crowds, was desiring to sacrifice to them.
Act 14:14 But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their garments and rushed in to the crowd, crying out
Act 14:15 and saying, "Men! Why are you doing these things? We men are of the same nature as you, preaching the gospel to you, that you must turn from these useless things to turn to the living God, who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all the things in them,
Act 14:16 who in the generations gone by permitted all the Gentiles to walk in their ways.
Act 14:17 And yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good, giving to you rain from heaven and fruitbearing seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness."
Act 14:18 And saying these things, they scarcely stopped the crowds from sacrificing to them.
Act 14:19 But there arrived from Antioch and Iconium certain Jews, and having persuaded the crowds and having stoned Paul, they dragged him outside the city, thinking he was dead.
Act 14:20 But when the disciples encircled him, he stood and entered into the city. And the next day he went out together with Barnabas to Derbe.
Act 14:21 And having preached the gospel to that city and having made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, and Iconium, and Antioch,
Act 14:22 strengthening the souls of the disciples, urging them to continue in the faith, saying, “Through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God."
Act 14:23 And having chosen elders for them in every church, and having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
Act 14:24 And having crossed Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
Act 14:25 And having spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia.
Act 14:26 From there they sailed to Antioch, where they were commended to the grace of God for the work which they had fulfilled.
Act 14:27 Now arriving and gathering the church together, they related all that God had done with them, and that He had opened the door of faith for the Gentiles.
Act 14:28 And they spent a long time there with the disciples.
Act 15:1 And certain men coming down from Judea were teaching the brothers, "If you are not circumcised in the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."
Act 15:2 Therefore when there arose a serious dissension and debate with Paul and Barnabus, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem concerning this issue.
Act 15:3 Therefore, being sent forth by the church, they were passing through Phoenicia and Samaria, telling in detail about the conversion of the Gentiles; and they were causing great joy to all the brothers.
Act 15:4 And having come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders; and they declared all that God had done with them.
Act 15:5 But some of those from the sect of the Pharisees rose up, saying, "It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses."
Act 15:6 And the apostles and elders gathered together to see about this matter.
Act 15:7 And after much debate, Peter arose and said to them: "Men and brothers, you know that from early days God chose among us, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
Act 15:8 And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as also He did to us,
Act 15:9 and made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Act 15:10 Now therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
Act 15:11 But through the grace of the Lord Jesus, we believe that we will be saved in the same manner as they."
Act 15:12 Then all the multitude stopped speaking and listened to Barnabas and Paul telling as many signs and wonders as God had done among the Gentiles through them.
Act 15:13 Now after they had finished speaking, James answered, saying, "Men and brothers, listen to me:
Act 15:14 Simeon has related how God first visited them to take from the Gentiles a people for His name.
Act 15:15 And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written:
Act 15:16 “AFTER THIS I WILL RETURN, AND I WILL BUILD AGAIN THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID, WHICH HAS FALLEN; AND ITS RUINS I WILL REBUILD, AND I WILL RESTORE IT,
Act 15:17 IN ORDER THAT THE REST OF MEN MAY SEEK OUT THE LORD, AND ALL THE GENTILES WHO ARE CALLED BY MY NAME, SAYS THE LORD WHO DOES ALL THESE THINGS.'
Act 15:18 "Known from everlasting to God are all His works.
Act 15:19 Therefore I judge that we must not cause trouble for those who are turning to God from among the Gentiles;
Act 15:20 but that we write to them to abstain from things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, from things strangled, and from blood.
Act 15:21 “For Moses has had from ancient generations those who proclaim him in each city, being read in the synagogues from one Sabbath to another."
Act 15:22 Then it seemed best to the apostles and the elders, together with the whole church, to send men chosen from among them to Antioch, together with Paul and Barnabas, namely, Judas who was also named Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers.
Act 15:23 Writing by their hand these things: The apostles, the elders, and the brothers, to the brothers in Antioch, and Syria, and Cilicia who are of the Gentiles: Greetings.
Act 15:24 Inasmuch as we have heard that some went out from among us and troubled you with words, unsettling your souls, saying, that you must be circumcised and keep the law—to whom we gave no such command—
Act 15:25 it seemed best to us, being like-minded, to send these chosen men to you, with our beloved brothers Barnabas and Paul,
Act 15:26 men who have risked their lives for the sake of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Act 15:27 We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who will also tell you the same things by word of mouth.
Act 15:28 For it seemed best to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to put on you no greater burden except for these necessary things:
Act 15:29 that you abstain from meat offered to idols, and from blood, and from anything strangled, and from sexual immorality; from which keeping yourselves back, you will do well. Farewell.
Act 15:30 Then having been dismissed, they came to Antioch; and having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.
Act 15:31 And when they had read it, they rejoiced over its encouragement.
Act 15:32 Now Judas and Silas, themselves being prophets also, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words.
Act 15:33 And after some time, they were dismissed with peace from the brothers to the apostles.
Act 15:34 (This verse omitted in Majority Text)
Act 15:35 But Paul and Barnabas spent time in Antioch, teaching and preaching the good news of the word of the Lord, with many others also.
Act 15:36 Then after some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return now and visit our brothers in each city in which we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are."
Act 15:37 But Barnabas desired to take along with them John called Mark.
Act 15:38 But Paul considered it fitting not to take along with them the one who withdrew from them in Pamphylia, and who had not gone together with them to the work.
Act 15:39 Therefore a sharp disagreement arose so that they were separated from one another. And Barnabas, taking along Mark, sailed to Cyprus.
Act 15:40 But Paul, choosing Silas, departed, being given over to the grace of God by the brothers.
Act 15:41 And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
Act 16:1 Now he arrived at Derbe and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a certain Jewish woman who believed, but his father was Greek,
Act 16:2 who had a good testimony by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium.
Act 16:3 Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him, because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was Greek.
Act 16:4 And as they were going through the cities, they were delivering to them the decrees to keep, which had been decided by the apostles and the elders at Jerusalem.
Act 16:5 Therefore the churches were strengthened in the faith, and were growing in number each day.
Act 16:6 Now when they had gone through Phrygia and the Galatian region, they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit from speaking the word in Asia.
Act 16:7 And having come to Mysia they attempted to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit did not permit them.
Act 16:8 So they bypassed Mysia, and went down to Troas.
Act 16:9 And a vision appeared during the night to Paul. A certain man of Macedonia was standing, urging him, and saying, "Come across to Macedonia and help us."
Act 16:10 Now when he saw the vision, immediately we sought to go out to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Act 16:11 Therefore, putting to sea from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and the next day came to Neapolis,
Act 16:12 and from there to Philippi, which is chief of that part of Macedonia, a colony. And we were spending some days in that very city.
Act 16:13 And on the Sabbath day we went outside the city beside a river, where prayer was customarily made; and having sat down we spoke to the women who assembled together there.
Act 16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a dealer of purple cloth of the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, heard us, whose heart the Lord opened to give heed to the things spoken by Paul.
Act 16:15 And when she and her household were baptized, she urged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay." So she persuaded us.
Act 16:16 Now it came to pass, as we went to prayer, that a certain slave girl, having a spirit of Python, met us, who brought much profit to her masters by fortune telling.
Act 16:17 This girl, following after Paul and us, was crying out, saying, "These men are the servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us the way of salvation."
Act 16:18 And this she did for many days. But Paul, being greatly annoyed and turning around, said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And he came out in that very hour.
Act 16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their profit was gone, they took Paul and Silas, and dragged them to the marketplace before the rulers.
Act 16:20 And bringing them to the magistrates they said, "These men, being Jews, are agitating our city;
Act 16:21 and they are proclaiming customs which are not lawful for us to receive or to do, since we are Romans.”
Act 16:22 And the crowd rose up together against them; and the magistrates tore their clothes and ordered men to beat them with rods.
Act 16:23 And when they laid many strokes on them, they cast them into prison, commanding the prison keeper to keep them securely;
Act 16:24 who, having received such a command, cast them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.
Act 16:25 Now about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them.
Act 16:26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened and all the bonds were loosed.
Act 16:27 And becoming awake, the prison keeper, seeing the doors of the prison open, drawing a sword, he was about to kill himself, supposing the prisoners to have escaped.
Act 16:28 But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying, "Do not harm yourself, for we are all here."
Act 16:29 And asking for a light he rushed in, and he came trembling, and fell before Paul and Silas,
Act 16:30 and he brought them forth outside and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
Act 16:31 And they said, "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved, you and your household."
Act 16:32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all those in his house.
Act 16:33 And he took them along in that same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and immediately he and all his family were baptized.
Act 16:34 And bringing them up into his house, he set a meal before them; and he rejoiced with his whole house, having believed in God.
Act 16:35 Now when it became day, the magistrates sent the officers, saying, "Release those men."
Act 16:36 And the prison keeper told these words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent so that you may be released. Now therefore depart, and go in peace."
Act 16:37 But Paul said to them, "They beat us publicly, although we were uncondemned Romans, and they cast us into prison, and now do they cast us out secretly? No indeed! Let them come themselves and lead us out."
Act 16:38 And the officers related to the magistrates these words, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans.
Act 16:39 And coming, they appealed to them, and bringing them out, they asked them to depart from the city.
Act 16:40 And coming out from the prison, they entered into the house of Lydia; and seeing the brothers, they encouraged them and departed.
Act 17:1 Now traveling through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
Act 17:2 And according to Paul’s custom, he went in to them, and for three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
Act 17:3 interpreting and pointing out that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to arise from the dead, and saying that "This Jesus, whom I preach to you, is the Christ."
Act 17:4 And some of them were persuaded and were joined with Paul and Silas, both of the devout Greeks, a great multitude, and not a few of the chief women.
Act 17:5 And the Jews who did not believe took some wicked men from the marketplace, and forming a mob, they threw the city into disorder, and came upon the house of Jason, and sought to bring them to the people.
Act 17:6 But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers to the rulers of the city, crying out, "The men who have turned the world upside down have come here, too;
Act 17:7 whom Jason has received; and these all practice contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king—Jesus."
Act 17:8 And they troubled the crowd and the rulers of the city when they heard these things.
Act 17:9 And having taken the security bond from Jason and the rest, they released them.
Act 17:10 Then the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away during the night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews.
Act 17:11 Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, who received the word with all readiness, each day examining the Scriptures to see whether these things might be so.
Act 17:12 Therefore many of them believed, and not a few of the prominent Greek women and men.
Act 17:13 But when the Jews from Thessalonica found out that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul in Berea, they came there also, agitating the crowds.
Act 17:14 Then immediately the brothers sent Paul away to go toward the sea; but both Silas and Timothy remained there.
Act 17:15 Now those who escorted Paul brought him to Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy, that as quickly as possible they should come to him, they departed.
Act 17:16 And in Athens, while Paul waited for them, his spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was full of idols.
Act 17:17 Therefore he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentile worshipers, and in the marketplace daily with those coming by.
Act 17:18 And also some of the Epicurean and of the Stoic philosophers were conversing with him. And some were saying, "What does this seed-picker wish to say?" But others said, "He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities," because he was preaching the good news of Jesus and the resurrection.
Act 17:19 And taking hold of him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new doctrine is you speak about?
Act 17:20 For you are bringing some strange things to our ears. Therefore we desire to know what these things might mean."
Act 17:21 Now all the Athenians and the strangers staying there as visitors spent their time in nothing other than to say or to hear some new thing.
Act 17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, "Men, Athenians, according to all things I perceive you as being very religious;
Act 17:23 for as I passed by and considered the objects of your worship, I found also an altar on which it had been inscribed: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Therefore, Him whom being ignorant of you worship, this One I announce to you:
Act 17:24 The God who made the world and all the things in it, Him being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands,
Act 17:25 nor by the hands of men is He served, as though He needed anything, for He gives to all life and breath with respect to all things.
Act 17:26 And He made from one blood every nation of men to dwell upon all the face of the earth, and He ordained their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings,
Act 17:27 in order for them to seek the Lord, if perhaps indeed they might grope for Him and find Him, and yet being indeed not far from each one of us;
Act 17:28 for in Him we live and move and have our being, as also some of your own poets have said, 'For we are also His offspring.'
Act 17:29 "Therefore, being the offspring of God, we ought not to suppose that the Godhead is like gold or silver or stone, something shaped by art and the imagination of man.
Act 17:30 So then these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now He commands all men everywhere to repent,
Act 17:31 because He has appointed a day in which He is going to judge the world in righteousness by the Man whom He has appointed, having given proof to all, by raising Him from the dead."
Act 17:32 But when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some were scoffing, but others said, "We will hear you again concerning this."
Act 17:33 And thus Paul went forth from their midst.
Act 17:34 However, some men were joined to him and believed, among whom were also Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
Act 18:1 Now after these things, having departed from Athens, Paul came to Corinth.
Act 18:2 And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, having recently come from Italy with Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to depart from Rome); and he came to them,
Act 18:3 and because he was of the same trade, he remained with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by trade.
Act 18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded both Jews and Greeks.
Act 18:5 Now when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, solemnly bearing witness to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
Act 18:6 And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his clothes and said to them, "Your blood be on your own heads; I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
Act 18:7 And having gone over from there, he went into the house of a certain man named Justus, who worshiped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue.
Act 18:8 And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with all his household. And many of the Corinthians, hearing, were believing and were being baptized.
Act 18:9 Now the Lord spoke to Paul by a vision in the night, saying, "Do not fear, but speak, and do not keep silent;
Act 18:10 for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you; for I have many people in this city."
Act 18:11 And he settled there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Act 18:12 Now while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one purpose rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat,
Act 18:13 saying, "This man persuades men to worship God contrary to the law."
Act 18:14 And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If then it was some misdeed or wicked crime, O Jews, according to reason I would bear with you.
Act 18:15 But if it is a question about a word and names and your own law, see to it yourselves; for I do not wish to be a judge of these things."
Act 18:16 And he drove them away from the judgment seat.
Act 18:17 Then all the Greeks, taking hold of Sosthenes the ruler of the synagogue, were beating him before the judgment seat. And none of these things was a concern to Gallio.
Act 18:18 Now Paul still remained there a good while, then bid farewell to the brothers, and sailed away for Syria, and Priscilla and Aquila were with him. He had his hair cut off in Cenchrea, for he had taken a vow.
Act 18:19 And he arrived in Ephesus, and he left those two there; but he, having entered into the synagogue, reasoned with the Jews.
Act 18:20 And when they asked him to remain with them for a longer time, he declined,
Act 18:21 but bid farewell to them saying, "I must by all means keep this coming feast which is in Jerusalem; but I will return again to you, God willing." And he put out to sea from Ephesus.
Act 18:22 And having gone down to Caesarea, and having gone up and greeted the church, he went down to Antioch.
Act 18:23 After having spent some time there, he departed, and went from place to place through the Galatian region and the Phrygian region, strengthening all the disciples.
Act 18:24 Now a certain Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man and mighty in the Scriptures, had arrived in Ephesus.
Act 18:25 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things about the Lord, although he knew only the baptism of John.
Act 18:26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And when Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
Act 18:27 And when he desired to go across to Achaia, having urged him on, the brothers wrote to the disciples there to receive him; and when he arrived, he assisted greatly with those who had believed through grace;
Act 18:28 for he was powerfully refuting the Jews publicly, demonstrating by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah.
Act 19:1 And it came about, while Apollos was in Corinth, that Paul, having gone through the interior regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples
Act 19:2 he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit, having believed?" So they said to him, "We have not even heard whether there is a Holy Spirit."
Act 19:3 And he said to them, "Into what then were you baptized?" So they said, "Into John's baptism."
Act 19:4 But Paul said, "John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe in the One coming after him, that is, in Christ Jesus."
Act 19:5 And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Act 19:6 And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
Act 19:7 Now all the men were about twelve.
Act 19:8 And he entered into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, debating and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Act 19:9 But when some became hardened and disbelieving, speaking evil against the Way before the multitude, he withdrew from them and separated the disciples, each day debating in the school of Tyrannus.
Act 19:10 Now this took place for two years, so that all who were dwelling in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
Act 19:11 And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
Act 19:12 so that even handkerchiefs or aprons from his body were brought to those who were sick, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out from them.
Act 19:13 Then some of the wandering Jews, exorcists, attempted to name the name of the Lord Jesus over those having the evil spirits, saying, "We adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches."
Act 19:14 Now there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish high priest, doing this.
Act 19:15 But the evil spirit answered and said, "Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?"
Act 19:16 Then the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped upon them, and having subdued them, prevailed against them, so that they ran out of the house naked and wounded.
Act 19:17 Now this became known to all both Jews and Greeks who were dwelling in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all, and they were praising the name of the Lord Jesus.
Act 19:18 And many of those who had believed were coming, confessing and disclosing their deeds.
Act 19:19 And many of those who were practicing magic brought together their books and burned them up before everyone. And they counted up the prices of them, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Act 19:20 Thus the word of the Lord was growing powerfully and prevailed.
Act 19:21 Now after these events, Paul resolved in his spirit to go to Jerusalem, after he went through Macedonia and Achaia, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome."
Act 19:22 And having sent to Macedonia two of those who were ministering to him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed on for a time in Asia.
Act 19:23 Now there arose during that time a serious disturbance concerning the Way.
Act 19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, providing no little trade for the craftsmen,
Act 19:25 whom he gathered, with the workers of similar occupation, and said: "Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth.
Act 19:26 And you observe and hear that not only at Ephesus, but almost in all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great multitude, saying that they are not gods which are made by human hands.
Act 19:27 And not only is this business of ours in danger to come into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be despised and also her magnificence, and is about to be destroyed, she whom all Asia and the world worship."
Act 19:28 And hearing this, and becoming full of anger, they were crying out saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Act 19:29 And the whole city was filled with confusion, and they rushed with one purpose into the theater, having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, traveling companions of Paul.
Act 19:30 Now when Paul desired to enter into the people, the disciples would not permit him.
Act 19:31 And also some of the officials of Asia, being friends with him, sent word to him and urged him not to present himself in the theater.
Act 19:32 Then others were calling out something different, for the assembly was confused, and the majority did not know for what reason they had come together.
Act 19:33 And from the crowd they brought forward Alexander, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander motioned with his hand, and desired to make a defense to the people.
Act 19:34 But recognizing he was a Jew, there arose one voice from them all, calling out for two hours, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
Act 19:35 And having quieted the crowd, the city clerk said: "Men of Ephesus, for what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the temple keeper of the great goddess Artemis, and of the image fallen from heaven?
Act 19:36 Therefore, since these things are undeniable, it is necessary for you to be quieted and to do nothing rash.
Act 19:37 For you have brought these men here who are neither temple thieves nor blasphemers of your goddess.
Act 19:38 Therefore, if Demetrius and his fellow craftsmen have a word against anyone, the courts are in session, and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another.
Act 19:39 But if you are wanting to know anything about other matters, it shall be determined by a lawful assembly.
Act 19:40 For we also are in danger of being accused of insurrection concerning today’s events, there being no cause for which we will be able to give, as an explanation for this commotion.
Act 19:41 And having said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
Act 20:1 Now after the disturbance had ceased, Paul, summoning the disciples and greeting them, went away to go to Macedonia.
Act 20:2 And going through those parts, and encouraging them with many words, he came to Greece
Act 20:3 and spent three months there. And as a plot by the Jews developed against him, as he was to put to sea for Syria, a decision came about to return through Macedonia.
Act 20:4 And Sopater, a Berean, was accompanying him to Asia—also Aristarchus of the Thessalonians, and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus, the Asians.
Act 20:5 These men, having gone ahead, were waiting for us in Troas.
Act 20:6 And we sailed away after the days of Unleavened Bread, from Philippi, and we came to them in Troas within five days, where we spent seven days.
Act 20:7 Now on the first day of the week, the disciples being assembled to break bread, Paul was discussing with them, being about to leave on the next day, and extended his message until midnight.
Act 20:8 And there were a considerable number of lamps in the upper room where we were assembled.
Act 20:9 And a certain young man named Eutychus sat in the window, being overwhelmed by a deep sleep. While Paul was speaking for a while longer, having been overwhelmed by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
Act 20:10 But Paul, going down, fell upon him, and embracing him said, "Do not be troubled, for his life is in him."
Act 20:11 And going up and breaking bread and eating, and talking for a considerable time, until daybreak, thus he departed.
Act 20:12 And they brought the boy living, and they were encouraged greatly.
Act 20:13 Now we, having gone ahead on the ship, put to sea for Assos, from there intending to take Paul on board; for thus it had been arranged, since he intended to go on foot.
Act 20:14 And when he met us at Assos, having taken him aboard, we came to Mitylene.
Act 20:15 And having sailing away from there, on the next day we arrived opposite Chios. The following day we approached to Samos and remained in Trogyllium. The following day we came to Miletus.
Act 20:16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, in order that it might not happen to him to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying, if it was possible for him to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
Act 20:17 Now from Miletus, having sent to Ephesus, he summoned the elders of the church.
Act 20:18 And when they were present with him, he said to them: "You know from the first day which I arrived in Asia, how I was with you the whole time,
Act 20:19 serving the Lord with all humility, and with many tears and trials which happened to me by the plots of the Jews;
Act 20:20 how I kept back nothing that was profitable, but declared it to you, teaching you publicly and from house to house,
Act 20:21 solemnly bearing witness to both Jews and to Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus.
Act 20:22 And now behold, I, having been bound in the spirit, am going to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there,
Act 20:23 except that the Holy Spirit in every city is solemnly bearing witness, saying that bonds and tribulations are waiting for me.
Act 20:24 But I count myself as nothing; nor do I regard my life as valuable to myself, so that I may complete my course with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear solemn testimony to the gospel of the grace of God.
Act 20:25 And now behold, now I know that you all, among whom I have passed through preaching the kingdom of God, will no longer see my face.
Act 20:26 Therefore I testify to you this very day, that I am innocent of all blood.
Act 20:27 For I did not draw back from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.
Act 20:28 Therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit placed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of the Lord, and of God, which He purchased with His own blood.
Act 20:29 For I know this, that savage wolves will come in after my departure, not sparing the flock.
Act 20:30 Also from among you yourselves will arise men speaking things having been distorted, in order to draw away the disciples after them.
Act 20:31 Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years, night and day I did not cease, with tears, exhorting each one.
Act 20:32 So for the present, I entrust you, brothers, to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who have been sanctified.
Act 20:33 I have coveted the silver or gold or clothes of no one.
Act 20:34 You yourselves know that these hands have rendered service to my needs, and those who were with me.
Act 20:35 By all things I have shown you, that thus laboring it is necessary to help the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.' "
Act 20:36 And having said these things, he knelt down, together with them all, and prayed.
Act 20:37 And there was considerable weeping by all, and falling on Paul's neck, they kissed him,
Act 20:38 feeling pain most of all for the words which he said, that they were about to see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.
Act 21:1 Now when it came to pass that we had put to sea, having withdrawn from them, running a straight course we came to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
Act 21:2 And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we boarded it and put to sea.
Act 21:3 When we had sighted Cyprus, and had left it behind on the left, we sailed to Syria, and put in to harbor in Tyre, for the ship was unloading its cargo.
Act 21:4 And having discovered disciples, we stayed there seven days. They said to Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem.
Act 21:5 But when it came about that we had completed the days there, having gone out we departed, all of them accompanying us, together with their wives and children, until we were outside the city. And having bowed our knees on the shore, we prayed.
Act 21:6 And having greeted one another, we went up into the ship, and they returned to their own homes.
Act 21:7 And completing our voyage from Tyre, we arrived in Ptolemais, and having greeted the brothers, we stayed one day with them.
Act 21:8 On the next day those accompanying Paul went forth and came to Caesarea, and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.
Act 21:9 Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.
Act 21:10 And while we remained there several days, a certain prophet from Judea named Agabus came down.
Act 21:11 And coming to us and taking Paul's belt, and binding his feet and hands, he said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit: ' The man whose belt this is, the Jews will bind in this way in Jerusalem, and they will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.' "
Act 21:12 Now when we heard these things, both we and the local residents urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Act 21:13 Then Paul answered, "Why are you weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus."
Act 21:14 And when he remained unpersuaded, we were silent and said, "Let the will of the Lord be done."
Act 21:15 Now after those days, having prepared, we went up to Jerusalem.
Act 21:16 Also some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us and brought with them a certain Cypriot named Mnason, a long-standing disciple, with whom we would stay as a guest.
Act 21:17 And when we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers gladly received us.
Act 21:18 On the next day Paul was going in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
Act 21:19 And having greeted them, he reported one by one those things which God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
Act 21:20 And hearing this, they were glorifying the Lord, saying to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law;
Act 21:21 and they have been informed about you, that you are teaching defection from Moses, to all the Jews who are among the Gentiles, saying for them not to circumcise their children nor to walk in our customs.
Act 21:22 What then? It is necessary for an assembly to come together; for they will hear that you have come.
Act 21:23 Therefore do this, which we say to you: There are four men with us who have taken a vow upon themselves.
Act 21:24 Take them and purify yourself with them, and pay for them that they may have their heads shaved, and that all may know that those things of which they have been informed about you are nothing, but that you are agreeing with and keeping the law yourself.
Act 21:25 But as for the Gentile believers, we wrote, having judged that they should keep no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, and from anything strangled, and from sexual immorality.”
Act 21:26 Then Paul, having taken the men, on the next day having been purified with them, entered into the temple, thus giving notice to the completion of the days of the purification, until the time when the offering was offered in behalf of each one of them.
Act 21:27 Now when the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, were stirring up all the crowd and put their hands on him,
Act 21:28 crying out, "Men of Israel, help us! This is the man who is teaching all people everywhere against the people and the Law and this place; and furthermore he has brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place."
Act 21:29 For they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.
Act 21:30 And all the city was aroused; and there was a mob forming among the people, and taking hold of Paul they were dragging him outside the temple; and immediately the doors were shut.
Act 21:31 And seeking to kill him, a report went up to the commander of the garrison that all Jerusalem had been stirred up,
Act 21:32 who immediately having taken along soldiers and centurions, ran down among them. And when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Act 21:33 And the commander, approaching, took hold of him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains; and he was inquiring who he might be and what he had done.
Act 21:34 But others among the crowd were crying out one thing and some another; and because he was unable to ascertain the truth because of the noise, he commanded him to be brought into the barracks.
Act 21:35 But when he arrived at the stairs, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd.
Act 21:36 For the multitude of the people was following, calling out, "take him away!"
Act 21:37 Then as Paul was about to be led into the barracks, he said to the commander, "Is it permitted from me to speak to you?" And he said, "Do you know Greek?
Act 21:38 Are you not then the Egyptian who rose up before these days, and led forth the four thousand men of the assassins into the wilderness?”
Act 21:39 But Paul said, "I am a Jew from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no obscure city; and I request of you, permit me to speak to the people."
Act 21:40 And permitting him, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying,
Act 22:1 "Men, brothers and fathers, hear my defense to you now."
Act 22:2 And hearing that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they granted him more silence. And he said:
Act 22:3 "I am indeed a Jew, having been born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but having been brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, having been educated according to the exactness of the law of our forefathers, being zealous for God just as you all are today.
Act 22:4 I, who persecuted this Way to the death, binding and handing over to prisons both men and women,
Act 22:5 as also the high priest testifies of me, along with the council of the elders, from whom I also received letters to the brothers, and went to Damascus in order to bring those who were there, having been bound, to Jerusalem, that they might be punished.
Act 22:6 Now it happened, as I was going and approaching Damascus, about midday, suddenly from heaven a great light shone about me.
Act 22:7 And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?'
Act 22:8 "So I answered, 'Who are You, Lord?' And He said to me, 'I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.'
Act 22:9 "And those who were with me observed the light and became terrified, but they did not hear the voice of the One speaking to me.
Act 22:10 So I said, 'What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said to me, 'Arise and go into Damascus, and it will be told to you about all the things which it has been appointed for you to do.'
Act 22:11 "And since I could not see because of the brightness of that light, being led by the hand by those who were with me, I came into Damascus.
Act 22:12 And Ananias, a certain devout man according to the law, being testified of by all the Jews dwelling in Damascus,
Act 22:13 came to me and he stood and said to me, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight.' And I, in that very hour, looked up at him.
Act 22:14 And he said, 'The God of our fathers has chosen you to know His will, and to see the Righteous One, and hear the voice from His mouth.
Act 22:15 For you shall be a witness for Him to all men of what you have seen and heard.
Act 22:16 And now, what are you going to do? Arise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord.'
Act 22:17 “And it happened to me, having returned to Jerusalem and praying in the temple, that I came to be in a trance,
Act 22:18 and saw Him saying to me, 'Hurry and go out quickly from Jerusalem, for they will not receive your witness about Me.'
Act 22:19 And I said, 'Lord, they know that in every synagogue I was imprisoning and beating those believing on You.
Act 22:20 And when the blood of Your witness Stephen was shed, I myself was standing by consenting to his murder, and guarding the clothes of those murdering him.'
Act 22:21 Then He said to me, 'Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.' "
Act 22:22 Now they were listening to him until this statement, and they lifted their voice saying, "Take away such a man from the earth, for it is not fitting for him to live!"
Act 22:23 And as they were crying out and throwing off their clothes, and throwing dust in the air,
Act 22:24 the commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks, and said for him that he should be given a hearing with scourging, so that he might learn why they were shouting at him like this.
Act 22:25 But as they were stretching him out with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion standing there, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman, and uncondemned?"
Act 22:26 And the centurion, hearing this, going to the commander he reported, saying, "Watch what you are about to do, for this man is a Roman."
Act 22:27 Then the commander came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" He said, "Yes."
Act 22:28 And the commander answered, "I acquired this citizenship with much money.” And Paul said, "But I was born a citizen."
Act 22:29 Then immediately those who were about to interrogate him withdrew from him; and even the commander was afraid, having learned he was a Roman, and that he had bound him.
Act 22:30 Now on the next day, desiring to know the truth as to why he was accused by the Jews, he released him from the bonds, and ordered the chief priests and their whole council to come, and brought Paul down and presented him to them.
Act 23:1 Then Paul, looking intently at the council, said, "Men, brothers, I have lived with all good conscience toward God until this day."
Act 23:2 But the high priest Ananias commanded those standing by him to strike him on the mouth.
Act 23:3 Then Paul said to him, "God is about to strike you, you whitewashed wall! For you sit judging me according to the law, and contrary to the law do you command that I should be struck?"
Act 23:4 But those standing by said, "Do you revile the high priest of God?"
Act 23:5 Then Paul said, "I did not know, brothers, that he is the high priest; for it is written, 'YOU SHALL NOT SPEAK WICKEDLY OF A RULER OF YOUR PEOPLE.' "
Act 23:6 But when Paul perceived that one part was of the Sadducees and the other of the Pharisees, he cried out in the Sanhedrin, "Men and brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of a Pharisee; concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am being judged!"
Act 23:7 And when he had spoken this, there came to be a dispute between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Act 23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection—nor angel nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both.
Act 23:9 And there came to be a great outcry, and the scribes of the Pharisees' party stood up and contended sharply, saying, "We find no evil in this man; but if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God."
Act 23:10 And when much dissension developed, the commander, fearing lest Paul might be torn apart by them, commanded the detachment of soldiers to go down and seize him from the midst of them, and to bring him into the barracks.
Act 23:11 Now on the next night the Lord stood by him and said, "Take courage, Paul; for as you solemnly testified about the things concerning Me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome."
Act 23:12 Now when it was day, some of the Jews joined in a conspiracy and bound themselves by a curse, saying neither would they eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.
Act 23:13 And there were over forty who had made this plot;
Act 23:14 who came to the chief priests and to the elders and said, "We have bound ourselves by oath with a curse to taste nothing until we have killed Paul.
Act 23:15 Now you, therefore, together with the council, suggest to the commander that he be brought down to you tomorrow, as though you are going to determine more accurately the things concerning him; but we, before he comes near, are prepared to kill him."
Act 23:16 But when Paul's sister's son heard about the ambush, he came and entered into the barracks, and told this to Paul.
Act 23:17 And Paul, summoning one of the centurions, said, "Lead this young man away to the commander, for he has something to tell him."
Act 23:18 Therefore taking him along, he brought him to the commander and said, "The prisoner Paul, having summoned me, asked me to bring this young man to you, for he has something to tell you."
Act 23:19 And the commander, taking him by his hand, withdrew to a private place and inquired, "What is it that you have to tell me?"
Act 23:20 And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask that tomorrow you bring Paul down to the Sanhedrin, as though they are going to learn something more accurate concerning him.
Act 23:21 Therefore you must not be persuaded by them; for more than forty of them are lying in wait for him, who have bound themselves by a curse neither to eat nor to drink until they have killed him; and now they are prepared, waiting for the promise from you."
Act 23:22 Then the commander dismissed the young man, and commanded him, "Tell no one that you have made known these things to me."
Act 23:23 And having summoned two of the centurions he said, "Make ready two hundred soldiers, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen, in order that they may go to Caesarea, to leave at the third hour of the night;
Act 23:24 and place mounts at their disposal, in order that they may put Paul on them, and bring him safely to Felix the governor."
Act 23:25 And he wrote a letter which contained this content:
Act 23:26 Claudius Lysias, to the most excellent governor Felix: Greetings.
Act 23:27 This man, having been arrested by the Jews, was about to be killed by them. I came upon them with the detachment of soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he is a Roman.
Act 23:28 And desiring to know the cause for which they were accusing him, I took him down to their council;
Act 23:29 and I found that he was accused concerning questions of their law, but had no accusation against him worthy of death or chains.
Act 23:30 And when it became known to me that a plot against the man by the Jews was about to happen, I sent him at once to you, and also commanded the accusers to state the charges against him before you. Farewell.
Act 23:31 Then the soldiers, as they were commanded, took Paul and brought him during the night to Antipatris.
Act 23:32 And on the next day they left the horsemen to go on with him, and returned to the barracks.
Act 23:33 When they entered into Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him.
Act 23:34 And when the governor read the letter, he asked what province he was from. And learning that he was from Cilicia,
Act 23:35 he said, "I will give you a hearing when your accusers arrive." And he commanded him to be guarded in Herod's Praetorium.
Act 24:1 Now after five days Ananias the high priest came down with the elders and a certain attorney named Tertullus, who made known to the governor the charges against Paul.
Act 24:2 And when he had been called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: "Attaining much peace by you and successes coming about for this nation by your foresight,
Act 24:3 both in everything and everywhere we accept it, most excellent Felix, with all thanksgiving.
Act 24:4 But that I not weary you any longer, I beseech you to hear us briefly in your graciousness.
Act 24:5 For we have found this man to be a plague, and one causing discord among all the Jews throughout the world, and a leader of the Nazarenes sect,
Act 24:6 who also attempted to profane the temple, whom we also arrested,
Act 24:7 (This verse omitted in Majority Text)
Act 24:8 from whom you will be able, having judged him yourself, to learn about all these things of which we are accusing him.”
Act 24:9 And the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were so.
Act 24:10 But Paul answered (the governor, having nodded for him to speak): "Knowing that you have been a judge of this nation for many years, the more cheerfully I defend the things concerning myself,
Act 24:11 because you being able to know that it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
Act 24:12 And they did not find me with anyone in the temple disputing, or inciting a crowd to rise up, neither in the synagogues nor in the city.
Act 24:13 Nor are they able to prove against me the things about which they are now accusing me.
Act 24:14 But I confess this to you, that according to the Way which they call a sect, so I worship the God of my fathers, believing in all things which are written throughout the Law and in the Prophets,
Act 24:15 having hope in God, which even they themselves are waiting for, that there is going to be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust.
Act 24:16 And in this I myself am engaging, having a conscience blameless toward God and men through everything.
Act 24:17 And after many years I arrived to bring alms and offerings to my nation,
Act 24:18 among whom some Jews from Asia found me, having been purified in the temple, not with a crowd nor with turmoil,
Act 24:19 who ought to be present before you and to make accusation if anything they might have against me.
Act 24:20 Or let these themselves say what wrong they found in me, when I stood before the council,
Act 24:21 unless it is because of this one statement which I cried out, standing among them, 'Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged by you today.' "
Act 24:22 And when he heard these things, Felix adjourned them, knowing more accurately the things concerning the Way, and said, "When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide your case."
Act 24:23 And ordering the centurion to keep watch over Paul and to let him have some liberty, and not to forbid any of his own to serve or to come to him.
Act 24:24 Now after some days, when Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.
Act 24:25 And as he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix became afraid and answered, "Go away for now; but when I have opportunity I will summon you."
Act 24:26 Meanwhile he also hoped that money would be given him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore sending for him more often, he was conversing with him.
Act 24:27 But after two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and Felix, desiring to grant favors to the Jews, left Paul in prison.
Act 25:1 Now when Festus had set foot in the province, after three days he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
Act 25:2 And the high priest and the prominent men of the Jews made known to him the case against Paul; and they were appealing to him,
Act 25:3 asking for favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem—while planning an ambush to kill him along the way.
Act 25:4 But Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he was about to go there shortly.
Act 25:5 “Therefore," he said, "the prominent men among you, let them go with me and accuse this man, if there is anything in this man.”
Act 25:6 And when he had stayed among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the next day, sitting on the judgment seat, he commanded Paul to be brought.
Act 25:7 When he arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many and serious accusations against Paul, which they were not able to prove,
Act 25:8 while he defended himself, saying, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar did I commit any sin."
Act 25:9 But Festus, desiring to grant a favor to the Jews, answered Paul and said, "Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and there be judged before me concerning these things?"
Act 25:10 But Paul said, "I am standing before the judicial bench of Caesar, by whom it is necessary for me to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as also you know very well.
Act 25:11 For if I am doing wrong, and have done anything worthy of death, I am not trying to escape a death sentence; but if there is nothing in these things of which these people are accusing me, no one is able to deliver me to them. I appeal to Caesar."
Act 25:12 Then Festus, having talked together with the council, answered, "Have you appealed to Caesar? Before Caesar you shall go!"
Act 25:13 And after some days King Agrippa and Bernice arrived in Caesarea and greeted Festus.
Act 25:14 And as he was spending many days there, Festus laid before the king the charges against Paul, saying: "There is a certain man who was left a prisoner by Felix,
Act 25:15 about whom the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, when I was in Jerusalem, asking for punishment against him.
Act 25:16 To them I answered, 'It is not a custom with Romans to deliver any man to destruction before the one being accused may meet his accusers face to face, and may receive an opportunity for defense concerning the charge.'
Act 25:17 "Therefore when they had assembled here, having made no delay, on the next day I took my seat at the judicial bench, and I commanded the man to be brought in;
Act 25:18 concerning whom, when the accusers stood, they brought no accusation of the things which I was supposing,
Act 25:19 but had some questions against him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus, who had died, whom Paul professed to be alive.
Act 25:20 And being uncertain as to the investigation concerning this, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these charges.
Act 25:21 But when Paul appealed that he be kept for the decision of His Majesty the Emperor, I commanded him to be kept until I may send him to Caesar."
Act 25:22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I also was wishing to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," he said, "you shall hear him."
Act 25:23 Therefore on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had come with all pomp, and had entered into the auditorium together with the commanders and the prominent men of the city, and when Festus had commanded, Paul was brought.
Act 25:24 And Festus said: "King Agrippa and all the men who are with us, observe this man about whom the people of the Jews petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, crying against him that it is not fitting for him to live any longer.
Act 25:25 But when I came to understand him to have done nothing worthy of death, and also he had appealed to His Majesty the Emperor, I decided to send him.
Act 25:26 About whom I have nothing certain to write to my lord. Therefore I have brought him before you, and especially before you King Agrippa, in order that when this hearing is finished I may have something to write.
Act 25:27 For it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner and not to signify the accusations against him."
Act 26:1 Then Agrippa said to Paul, "It is permitted for you to speak for yourself." So Paul, having extended his hand, spoke in his own defense:
Act 26:2 “I have considered myself fortunate, King Agrippa, being able to speak in my own defense today, concerning all the things of which I am accused of by the Jews,
Act 26:3 especially since you are well versed both in all the customs and questions in relation to the Jews; therefore I beg you to hear me patiently.
Act 26:4 “Therefore my way of life from my youth, which from the beginning was spent among my own nation in Jerusalem, all the Jews know,
Act 26:5 since they have known me for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee.
Act 26:6 And now for the hope of the promise having been made by God to the fathers, I stand before you judged,
Act 26:7 a promise to which our twelve tribes, as they earnestly serve God night and day, hope to attain. Concerning which hope I am accused by the Jews, King Agrippa.
Act 26:8 Why is it considered such an unbelievable thing by you people if God raises the dead?
Act 26:9 “Therefore I thought in myself that it was necessary to do many hostile things against the name of Jesus the Nazarene;
Act 26:10 which also I did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I shut up in prisons, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were being put to death, I cast my vote against them.
Act 26:11 And I punished them often in all the synagogues, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even as far as to foreign cities.
Act 26:12 "In which pursuits also, as I traveled to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,
Act 26:13 at midday, O king, along the road I saw a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those traveling with me.
Act 26:14 And when we all had fallen down to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me and saying in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.'
Act 26:15 "So I said, 'Who are You, Lord?' And He said, 'I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
Act 26:16 But arise and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you, to appoint you a minister and a witness both of the things which you have seen, and of the things which I will appear to you,
Act 26:17 delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I am sending you,
Act 26:18 to open their eyes, in order to turn them from darkness to light, and from the authority of Satan to God, in order for them to receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Me.'
Act 26:19 "Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
Act 26:20 but to those first in Damascus and in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and to the Gentiles, proclaiming that they must repent and turn to God, and do works worthy of repentance.
Act 26:21 Because of these things the Jews arrested me in the temple and attempted to kill me.
Act 26:22 Therefore, having obtained help from God, until this day I stand, witnessing both to common people and great people, saying nothing except the things which both the prophets and Moses spoke of as being about to happen,
Act 26:23 that the Christ was to suffer, that as the first to rise from the dead, He was about to proclaim light to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles."
Act 26:24 Now as he spoke these things, Festus said with a loud voice, "You are mad, Paul! Your higher learning is driving you to madness!"
Act 26:25 But he said, "I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I boldly declare words of truth and reason.
Act 26:26 For the king knows about these things, to whom also I speak freely; for I am persuaded that none of these things escapes his notice, since this thing was not done in a corner.
Act 26:27 “Do you believe the prophets, King Agrippa? I know that you believe."
Act 26:28 And Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time, you are persuading me to become a Christian!”
Act 26:29 And Paul said, "I would to God, both in a short time and a long time, that not only you, but also all who are hearing me today, would become such as I am, except for these chains."
Act 26:30 When he had said these things, the king stood up, as well as the governor and Bernice and those sitting together with them;
Act 26:31 and when they withdrew, they were speaking among themselves, saying, "This man practices nothing worthy of death or chains."
Act 26:32 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been released if he had not appealed to Caesar."
Act 27:1 Now when it was decided that we should sail away to Italy, they handed over both Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan Regiment.
Act 27:2 And having boarded a ship of Adramyttium, scheduled to sail to the ports along the Asian coasts, we put to sea. Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
Act 27:3 And the next day we put in to harbor at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly, and permitted him to go to his friends to find care.
Act 27:4 And from there having put to sea, we sailed under the sheltered side of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.
Act 27:5 And having sailed across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we docked at Myra, in Lycia.
Act 27:6 And there the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing to Italy, and he put us aboard in it.
Act 27:7 And sailing slowly many days, and with difficulty arriving down off Cnidus, since the wind would not permit us to go on, we sailed under the sheltered side of Crete, down off Salmone.
Act 27:8 And with difficulty sailing past it, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea.
Act 27:9 Now when much time had been spent, the voyage having already become dangerous, because the Fast had already gone by, Paul recommended,
Act 27:10 saying to them, "Men, I perceive this voyage is going to be with hardship and much loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship but also our lives."
Act 27:11 But the centurion was persuaded by the helmsman and the ship owner, rather than by the things being said by Paul.
Act 27:12 And because the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority gave counsel to put to sea from there, if perhaps they might be able to get to Phoenix to spend the winter there, a harbor of Crete opening toward the southwest and to the northwest.
Act 27:13 And when a south wind blew gently, supposing they had attained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along close in shore to Crete.
Act 27:14 But not long after, a head wind like a hurricane arose, called a Euroclydon;
Act 27:15 and when the ship was seized by it, and not being able to face into the wind, we were being driven along, having given in to the wind.
Act 27:16 And running under the sheltered side of a certain little island called Clauda, we secured the skiff with difficulty.
Act 27:17 And having hoisted it up, they used cables for undergirding the ship; and being afraid lest they run aground in the Syrtes Shallows, they let down the driving anchor, thus they were being driven along by the wind.
Act 27:18 And because we were exceedingly tempest-tossed, the next day they lightened the ship.
Act 27:19 And on the third day we threw off the equipment of the ship with our own hands.
Act 27:20 And neither the sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm pressed on us, finally all hope for us to be saved was taken away.
Act 27:21 Now when they had abstained from food for a long time, then stood Paul in the midst of them and said, "Men, you should have followed my advice and not put to sea from Crete, and to spare yourselves this hardship and loss.
Act 27:22 And now I urge you to keep up your courage, for there will be loss of not one life among you, only of the ship.
Act 27:23 For there stood by me this night an angel of the God to whom I belong, whom also I serve,
Act 27:24 saying, 'Do not be afraid, Paul; for it is necessary for you to stand before Caesar; and behold, God has granted you all those sailing with you.'
Act 27:25 "Therefore keep up your courage, men; for I believe God that it will be in the very manner it has been spoken to me.
Act 27:26 However, it is necessary for us to run aground on a certain island."
Act 27:27 Now when it was the fourteenth night, as we were driven about in the Adriatic Sea, in the middle of the night the sailors sensed that land was approaching them.
Act 27:28 And having taken a sounding, they found it to be twenty fathoms; and when they had gone a little farther, they took soundings again and found it to be fifteen fathoms;
Act 27:29 and being afraid lest we should run aground on the rocks, they threw out four anchors from the stern, and were praying for day to come.
Act 27:30 Now as the sailors were seeking to flee from the ship, and letting down the skiff into the sea, in pretense of spreading out anchors from the prow,
Act 27:31 Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, "If these men do not remain in the ship, you cannot be saved."
Act 27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the skiff and let it fall off.
Act 27:33 And until the time was about to be day, Paul was urging them all to receive their share of food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth day you continue waiting without eating, having taken nothing.
Act 27:34 Therefore I urge you to take food, for this is for your deliverance; for not a hair from your head shall fall."
Act 27:35 And having said these things and having taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, and having broken it, he began to eat.
Act 27:36 And they all became cheerful and also took food themselves.
Act 27:37 And in all we were two hundred and seventy-six persons on the ship.
Act 27:38 And having eaten enough, they began lightening the ship and throwing out the wheat into the sea.
Act 27:39 Now when it became day, they did not recognize the land; but they noticed a certain bay which had a beach, on which they resolved, if possible, to run the ship ashore.
Act 27:40 And casting off the anchors, they were leaving them in the sea, meanwhile loosening the ropes of the rudders; and having raised the mainsail to the wind, they began steering toward the beach.
Act 27:41 But they struck a reef and ran the vessel aground, and the prow became stuck and remained unmoved, but the stern was being broken up by the violence of the waves.
Act 27:42 And the soldiers' decision was that they would kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape.
Act 27:43 But the centurion, wanting to rescue Paul, hindered them in their intention, and commanded that those who were able to swim to jump down first to go toward the land,
Act 27:44 and the rest, some on boards and others on parts from the ship. And in this way it came about that all were brought to safety.
Act 28:1 And when they were rescued, then they learned that the island was called Malta.
Act 28:2 And the natives were showing us extraordinary kindness; for having kindled a fire they accepted us all into their society, because of the rain which had begun, and because of the cold.
Act 28:3 But when Paul had gathered a large bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper having come out because of the heat, fastened on his hand.
Act 28:4 And when the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "Certainly this man is a murderer, whom though he was rescued from the sea, justice does not permit to continue living."
Act 28:5 Then, having shaken off the creature into the fire, he suffered nothing harmful.
Act 28:6 And they were expecting him to be about to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they had waited for a long time and observed nothing unusual happening to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
Act 28:7 Now in the areas around that place were pieces of land belonging to the leading citizen of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us, and received us hospitably as guests for three days.
Act 28:8 And it came to pass that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and dysentery, to whom Paul came in and prayed, and laying his hands on him, healed him.
Act 28:9 Then after this happened, also the rest who were ill on the island were coming to him and were being healed,
Act 28:10 who also honored us with many honors, and when we put to sea, they gave us the things that we needed.
Act 28:11 Now after three months we put to sea in a ship that had wintered on the island, belonging to Alexandria, with the figurehead of the Twin Brothers.
Act 28:12 And putting in to harbor at Syracuse, we stayed there three days,
Act 28:13 from where having sailed around we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day arose a south wind, on the second day we came to Puteoli,
Act 28:14 where having found brothers, we were urged by them to stay for seven days; and so we came to Rome.
Act 28:15 And from there the brothers, when they heard about our circumstances, they came to meet with us as far as Appii Forum and Three Inns, whom when Paul saw, he gave thanks to God and took courage.
Act 28:16 Now when we came to Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the captain of the guard; but Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier guarding him.
Act 28:17 And it came to pass after three days that Paul called together those who were prominent among the Jews; and when they had come together, he said to them: "Men, brothers, though I have done nothing against the people or the customs of our forefathers, yet I was handed over as a prisoner from Jerusalem, into the hands of the Romans,
Act 28:18 who, when they had examined me, were wanting to release me because there was no cause for my case.
Act 28:19 But when the Jews spoke in opposition, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything of which to accuse my nation.
Act 28:20 Therefore for this reason I have requested you, to see and to speak to you, for because of the hope of Israel I am wearing this chain."
Act 28:21 Then they said to him, "We neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers who arrived report or speak anything evil about you.
Act 28:22 But we request to hear from you the things which you think; for concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against."
Act 28:23 And having appointed for him a day, many came to him at his house, to whom he was explaining and solemnly testifying to the kingdom of God, and persuading them of the things concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and from the Prophets, from morning till evening.
Act 28:24 And some were persuaded by the things being said, but others refused to believe.
Act 28:25 And being in disagreement with one another, they went away after Paul had said one word: "The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers,
Act 28:26 saying, 'GO TO THIS PEOPLE AND SAY: "HEARING YOU WILL HEAR, AND BY NO MEANS UNDERSTAND; AND SEEING YOU SHALL SEE, AND BY NO MEANS PERCEIVE;
Act 28:27 FOR THE HEARTS OF THIS PEOPLE HAS BECOME DULL. THEIR EARS ARE HARD OF HEARING, AND THEIR EYES HAVE CLOSED, LEST THEY SHOULD SEE WITH THEIR EYES AND THEY SHOULD HEAR WITH THEIR EARS, LEST THEY SHOULD UNDERSTAND WITH THEIR HEART AND TURN BACK, SO THAT I SHOULD HEAL THEM." '
Act 28:28 "Therefore let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear it!"
Act 28:29 And when he had said these things, the Jews went away, having a great dispute among themselves.
Act 28:30 Then Paul remained two full years in his own rented house, and he was receiving all those who were coming to him,
Act 28:31 preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance.
