Joh 1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
Joh 1:2 He was in the beginning with God.
Joh 1:3 All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made.
Joh 1:4 In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
Joh 1:5 And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.
Joh 1:6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
Joh 1:7 This man came for a testimony, so that he might testify concerning the Light, so that all through him might believe.
Joh 1:8 He was not that Light, but was sent so that he might testify concerning the Light.
Joh 1:9 That was the true Light which lightens every man coming into the world.
Joh 1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made through Him, and the world did not know Him.
Joh 1:11 He came to His own, and His own did not receive Him.
Joh 1:12 But as many as received Him, to them He gave the authority to become children of God, even to those who believe in His name;
Joh 1:13 who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
Joh 1:14 And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
Joh 1:15 John testified concerning Him and has cried out, saying, "This was He of whom I said, 'He who comes after me ranks before me, because He was before me.' "
Joh 1:16 And out of His fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
Joh 1:17 For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
Joh 1:18 No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has revealed Him.
Joh 1:19 And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem so that they might ask him, "Who are you?"
Joh 1:20 He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, "I am not the Messiah."
Joh 1:21 And they asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not." "Are you the Prophet?" And he answered, "No."
Joh 1:22 Then they said to him, "Who are you, that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?"
Joh 1:23 He said: "I am ‘THE VOICE OF ONE CRYING IN THE WILDERNESS: "MAKE STRAIGHT THE WAY OF THE LORD,"’ as Isaiah the prophet said."
Joh 1:24 Now those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
Joh 1:25 And they asked him, saying, "Why then do you baptize if you are not the Messiah, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?"
Joh 1:26 John answered them, saying, "I baptize with water, but there stands One among you whom you do not know.
Joh 1:27 He is the One who comes after me, who ranks before me, of whom I am not worthy that I should loose the strap of His sandal."
Joh 1:28 These things happened in Bethany, beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
Joh 1:29 The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, "Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
Joh 1:30 This is the One about whom I said, 'After me comes a Man who ranks before me, because He was before me.'
Joh 1:31 "I did not know Him; but that He should be made manifest to Israel, therefore I came baptizing with water."
Joh 1:32 And John testified, saying, "I saw the Spirit coming down from heaven like a dove, and He remained upon Him.
Joh 1:33 I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize with water said to me, 'Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and abiding on Him, this is He who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'
Joh 1:34 "And I have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God."
Joh 1:35 Again, the next day, John stood with two of his disciples.
Joh 1:36 And looking at Jesus as He was walking, he said, "Behold the Lamb of God!"
Joh 1:37 The two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
Joh 1:38 Then Jesus turned and observed them following, and said to them, "What are you seeking?" They said to Him, "Rabbi" (which is translated, Teacher), "where are You staying?"
Joh 1:39 He said to them, "Come and see." They came and saw where He was staying, and they stayed with Him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
Joh 1:40 One of the two who heard John speak, and followed Him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
Joh 1:41 He first found his own brother Simon, and said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which is translated, the Christ).
Joh 1:42 And he led him to Jesus. Now when Jesus looked at him, He said, "You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas" (which means Peter).
Joh 1:43 On the next day He wanted to go to Galilee, and He found Philip and said to him, "Follow Me."
Joh 1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Joh 1:45 Philip found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found the One about whom Moses wrote in the Law and the Prophets—Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
Joh 1:46 And Nathanael said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."
Joh 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward Him, and said about him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!"
Joh 1:48 Nathanael said to Him, "From where do You know me?" Jesus answered and said to him, "Before Philip called you, while you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
Joh 1:49 Nathanael answered and said to Him, "Rabbi, You are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!"
Joh 1:50 Jesus answered and said to him, "Because I said to you, 'I saw you under the fig tree,' do you believe? You will see greater things than these."
Joh 1:51 And He said to him, "Most assuredly I say to you, from now on you shall see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man."
Joh 2:1 And on the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
Joh 2:2 Now both Jesus and His disciples were invited to the wedding.
Joh 2:3 And when the wine had given out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, "They have no wine."
Joh 2:4 Jesus said to her, "Woman, what have I to do with you? My hour has not yet come."
Joh 2:5 His mother said to the servants, "Whatever He may say to you, do."
Joh 2:6 Now there were six stone water jars standing there, according to the purification rites of the Jews, each holding two or three measures.
Joh 2:7 Jesus said to them, "Fill the water jars with water." And they filled them up to the top.
Joh 2:8 And He said to them, "Draw some out now, and take it to the head steward." And they took it.
Joh 2:9 Now when the head steward tasted the water which had become wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the head steward called the bridegroom
Joh 2:10 and said to him, "Every man first sets out the good wine, and when they have well drunk, then the inferior. But you have kept the good wine until now!"
Joh 2:11 This beginning of the signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested His glory; and His disciples believed in Him.
Joh 2:12 After this He went down to Capernaum, He, His mother, His brothers, and His disciples; and there they remained not many days.
Joh 2:13 Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Joh 2:14 And He found in the temple those who sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there.
Joh 2:15 And having made a scourge out of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen, and He poured out the coins of the moneychangers, and He overturned the tables.
Joh 2:16 And He said to those selling the doves, "Take these things away from here! Do not make My Father's house a house of merchandise!"
Joh 2:17 Then His disciples remembered that it was written, "THE ZEAL FOR YOUR HOUSE WILL CONSUME ME."
Joh 2:18 Therefore the Jews answered and said to Him, "What sign do You show us, seeing that You do these things?"
Joh 2:19 Jesus answered and said to them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
Joh 2:20 Then the Jews said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will You raise it up in three days?"
Joh 2:21 But He was speaking about the temple of His body.
Joh 2:22 Therefore, when He was raised up from among the dead, His disciples remembered that He spoke this thing, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.
Joh 2:23 Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed on His name when they saw the signs that He was doing.
Joh 2:24 But Jesus did not trust Himself to them, because He knew all men,
Joh 2:25 and had no need that anyone should testify concerning man, for He himself knew what was in man.
Joh 3:1 Now there was a man of the Pharisees whose name was Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
Joh 3:2 This man came to Him by night and said to Him, "Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher; for no one can do these signs that You do unless God is with him."
Joh 3:3 Jesus answered and said to him, "Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God."
Joh 3:4 Nicodemus said to Him, "How can a man be born, being old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?"
Joh 3:5 Jesus answered, "Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
Joh 3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Joh 3:7 Do not marvel that I said to you, 'You must be born again.'
Joh 3:8 "The wind blows where it wills, and you hear its sound, but you do not know from where it comes and where it goes. So is everyone who has been born of the Spirit."
Joh 3:9 Nicodemus answered and said to Him, "How can these things be?"
Joh 3:10 Jesus answered and said to him, "Are you the teacher of Israel, and do not know these things?
Joh 3:11 Most assuredly I say to you, that which We know, We speak, and that which We have seen, We bear witness to, and you do not receive Our witness.
Joh 3:12 If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
Joh 3:13 And no one has gone up into heaven except He who came down out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.
Joh 3:14 And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
Joh 3:15 that everyone who believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life.
Joh 3:16 For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life.
Joh 3:17 For God did not send His Son into the world so that He might condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.
Joh 3:18 He who believes in Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
Joh 3:19 And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness more than the light, because their works were evil.
Joh 3:20 For everyone that does evil hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works be exposed.
Joh 3:21 But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be revealed, that they have been done in God."
Joh 3:22 After these things Jesus, along with His disciples, came into the land of Judea, and there He was staying with them and He was baptizing.
Joh 3:23 Now John also was baptizing in Aenon near Salem, because there was much water there. And they came and were baptized.
Joh 3:24 (For John was not yet cast into prison).
Joh 3:25 Then there came to be a dispute between John’s disciples and a Jew about purification.
Joh 3:26 And they came to John and said to him, "Rabbi, He who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified—behold, this Man is baptizing, and all men are coming to Him!"
Joh 3:27 John answered and said, "A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven.
Joh 3:28 You yourselves bear witness that I said, 'I am not the Messiah,' but, 'I have been sent before Him.'
Joh 3:29 "He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the voice of the bridegroom. Therefore my joy has been fulfilled.
Joh 3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease.
Joh 3:31 “He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
Joh 3:32 And what He has seen and heard, that He testifies; and no one receives His testimony.
Joh 3:33 He who receives His testimony has certified that God is true.
Joh 3:34 For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God does not give the Spirit by measure.
Joh 3:35 The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into His hand.
Joh 3:36 He who believes in the Son has eternal life; and he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him."
Joh 4:1 Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and was baptizing more disciples than John
Joh 4:2 (although Jesus Himself was not baptizing, but His disciples),
Joh 4:3 He left Judea and went away into Galilee.
Joh 4:4 But He needed to pass through Samaria.
Joh 4:5 Therefore He came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near the piece of land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
Joh 4:6 Now Jacob's well was there. Therefore Jesus, having become tired from the journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour.
Joh 4:7 A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give Me a drink."
Joh 4:8 (For His disciples had gone away into the city, that they might buy provisions).
Joh 4:9 Then the woman of Samaria said to Him, "How is it that You, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?" For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.
Joh 4:10 Jesus answered and said to her, "If you had known the gift of God, and who it is that says to you, 'Give Me a drink,' you would have asked Him, and He would have given to you living water."
Joh 4:11 The woman said to Him, "Sir, You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do You get that living water?
Joh 4:12 Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his livestock?"
Joh 4:13 Jesus answered and said to her, "Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again,
Joh 4:14 but whoever drinks of the water which I shall give him will by no means ever thirst again. But the water which I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into eternal life."
Joh 4:15 The woman said to Him, "Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw."
Joh 4:16 Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."
Joh 4:17 The woman answered and said, "I have no husband." Jesus said to her, "You have said well, 'I have no husband,'
Joh 4:18 "for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband; in this you have said truly."
Joh 4:19 The woman said to Him, "Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet.
Joh 4:20 Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to worship."
Joh 4:21 Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe Me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, worship the Father.
Joh 4:22 You worship what you do not know; we Jews worship what we know, because salvation is of the Jews.
Joh 4:23 But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth; for the Father is seeking such to worship Him.
Joh 4:24 God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth."
Joh 4:25 The woman said to Him, "I know that Messiah is coming" (who is called Christ). "When He comes, He will proclaim to us all things."
Joh 4:26 Jesus said to her, "I am He, the One speaking to you."
Joh 4:27 And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; however no one said, "What do You seek?" or, "Why are You speaking with her?"
Joh 4:28 The woman then left her water jar, went her way into the city, and said to the men,
Joh 4:29 “Come, see a Man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Christ?"
Joh 4:30 They went out of the city and were coming to Him.
Joh 4:31 But in the meantime the disciples urged Him, saying, "Rabbi, eat."
Joh 4:32 But He said to them, "I have food to eat of which you do not know."
Joh 4:33 Therefore the disciples were saying to one another, "Has anyone brought Him something to eat?"
Joh 4:34 Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me, and to finish His work.
Joh 4:35 Do you not say, 'There are still four months and the harvest comes'? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and see the fields, for they are already white for harvest!
Joh 4:36 And he who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit unto eternal life, that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
Joh 4:37 For in this the saying is true: 'One sows and another reaps.'
Joh 4:38 "I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labors."
Joh 4:39 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in Him because of the word of the woman testifying, "He told me everything I ever did."
Joh 4:40 So when the Samaritans had come to Him, they were asking Him to stay with them; and He stayed there two days.
Joh 4:41 And many more believed because of His word.
Joh 4:42 Then they were saying to the woman, "No longer because of your speech do we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this is truly the Christ, the Savior of the world."
Joh 4:43 Now after the two days He went out from there and went to Galilee.
Joh 4:44 For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
Joh 4:45 Therefore when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all the things which He did in Jerusalem at the feast; for they also went to the feast.
Joh 4:46 Then Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee where He had turned the water into wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick in Capernaum.
Joh 4:47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him that He might come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
Joh 4:48 Then Jesus said to him, "Unless you people see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe."
Joh 4:49 The nobleman said to Him, "Sir, come down before my child dies!"
Joh 4:50 Jesus said to him, "Go; your son lives." And the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and went away.
Joh 4:51 And already as he was going, his servants met him and reported, saying, "Your child lives!"
Joh 4:52 Then he inquired from them the hour at which he got better. And they said to him, "Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him."
Joh 4:53 Therefore the father knew that it was at the same hour in which Jesus said to him, "Your son lives." And he himself believed, and his whole household.
Joh 4:54 This was now the second sign that Jesus did, after He had come out of Judea into Galilee.
Joh 5:1 After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Joh 5:2 Now there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew, Bethesda, having five porches.
Joh 5:3 In these porches were lying a great multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water.
Joh 5:4 For an angel from time to time descended into the pool and stirred up the water; therefore the first one having gone in after the stirring up of the water, became well of whatever disease he was suffering from.
Joh 5:5 Now there was a certain man there who had an ailment for thirty-eight years.
Joh 5:6 When Jesus saw this man lying there, and knew that he already had been in that condition a long time, He said to him, "Do you wish to become well?"
Joh 5:7 The sick man answered Him, "Sir, I do not have a man, so that whenever the water is stirred up, he may put me into the pool; but while I am coming, another steps down before me."
Joh 5:8 Jesus said to him, "Arise, take up your bed and walk."
Joh 5:9 And immediately the man became well, and took up his bed, and began to walk. And that day was the Sabbath.
Joh 5:10 Therefore the Jews said to the man who was healed, "It is the Sabbath; it is not lawful for you to carry your bed."
Joh 5:11 He answered them, "He that made me whole, He said to me, 'Take up your bed and walk.' "
Joh 5:12 Then they asked him, "Who is the Man who said to you, 'Take up your bed and walk'?"
Joh 5:13 But the one who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had turned aside, while a crowd was in that place.
Joh 5:14 After these things Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him, "Behold, you have become well. Sin no more, lest something worse happens to you."
Joh 5:15 The man went away and reported to the Jews that Jesus was the One who had made him well.
Joh 5:16 And on account of this the Jews began to persecute Jesus, and were seeking to kill Him, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath.
Joh 5:17 But Jesus answered them, "My Father has been working until now, and I am working."
Joh 5:18 Because of this the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him, because not only was He breaking the Sabbath, but also He called God His own Father, making Himself equal with God.
Joh 5:19 Then Jesus answered and said to them, "Most assuredly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself, but what He sees the Father doing; for whatever He does, the Son also does in like manner.
Joh 5:20 For the Father loves the Son, and shows to Him all things which He Himself does; and greater works than these He will show Him, so that you may marvel.
Joh 5:21 For as the Father raises up the dead and gives life, thus also the Son gives life to whom He wills.
Joh 5:22 For the Father judges no one, but He has committed all judgment to the Son,
Joh 5:23 so that all may honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
Joh 5:24 "Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears My word and believes in Him who sent Me has eternal life, and shall not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.
Joh 5:25 Most assuredly I say to you, that an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God; and those having heard shall live.
Joh 5:26 For just as the Father has life in Himself, so He has granted the Son to have life in Himself,
Joh 5:27 and has given Him authority to execute judgment also, because He is the Son of Man.
Joh 5:28 Do not marvel at this; for an hour is coming in which all those in the tombs will hear His voice
Joh 5:29 and shall come forth—those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of damnation.
Joh 5:30 I can of My own self do nothing. Even as I hear, I judge; and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will but the will of the Father who sent Me.
Joh 5:31 "If I alone testify of Myself, My testimony is not true.
Joh 5:32 There is another who testifies about Me, and I know that the testimony which He testifies concerning Me is true.
Joh 5:33 You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth.
Joh 5:34 But I do not receive the testimony from man, but these things I say so that you may be saved.
Joh 5:35 He was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.
Joh 5:36 But I have a testimony greater than John's; for the works which the Father gave to Me, that I should complete them, these very works which I do, testify of Me, that the Father has sent Me.
Joh 5:37 And the Father Himself, who sent Me, has testified about Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor seen His form.
Joh 5:38 But you do not have His word abiding in you, because Him whom He sent, Him you do not believe.
Joh 5:39 You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and these are they which testify about Me.
Joh 5:40 But you are unwilling to come to Me, so that you may have life.
Joh 5:41 I do not receive glory from men.
Joh 5:42 But I have known you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
Joh 5:43 I have come in My Father's name, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, him you will receive.
Joh 5:44 How can you believe, who receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory which is from the only God?
Joh 5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you—Moses, in whom you have hoped.
Joh 5:46 For if you believed Moses, you would have believed Me; for he wrote about Me.
Joh 5:47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?"
Joh 6:1 After these things Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, that is, of Tiberias.
Joh 6:2 And a large crowd was following Him, because they were seeing His signs which He was doing upon those who were sick.
Joh 6:3 And Jesus went up on the mountain, and there He sat down with His disciples.
Joh 6:4 Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Joh 6:5 Then Jesus lifted up His eyes, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward Him, He said to Philip, "Where shall we buy bread, that these people may eat?"
Joh 6:6 But this He said to test him, for He Himself knew what He was about to do.
Joh 6:7 Philip answered Him, "Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not enough for them, that each of them might receive a little."
Joh 6:8 One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to Him,
Joh 6:9 “There is a little boy here who has five barley loaves and two small fish, but what are they for so many?"
Joh 6:10 Then Jesus said, "Make the people to recline." Now there was much grass in that place. Therefore the men reclined, in number about five thousand.
Joh 6:11 And Jesus took the loaves, and having given thanks He distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were reclining; and likewise of the fish, as much as they wished.
Joh 6:12 And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, "Gather up the leftover fragments, so that nothing may be lost."
Joh 6:13 Therefore they gathered them up, and they filled twelve baskets of fragments from the five barley loaves which were left over by those who had eaten.
Joh 6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the sign that Jesus did, said, "This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world."
Joh 6:15 Therefore Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and seize Him, that they might make Him king, withdrew to the mountain by Himself.
Joh 6:16 Now when evening came, His disciples went down to the sea,
Joh 6:17 and having entered into the boat, they were going across the sea to Capernaum. And darkness had already come, and Jesus had not come to them.
Joh 6:18 And the sea was agitated by a great blowing wind.
Joh 6:19 Therefore having rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat; and they were frightened.
Joh 6:20 But He said to them, "It is I AM; do not fear."
Joh 6:21 Then they were willing to receive Him into the boat, and immediately the boat arrived at the land to which they were going.
Joh 6:22 On the next day, when the crowd which had remained on the other side of the sea, having seen that there was no other boat there, except that one in which His disciples had entered, and that Jesus had not entered into the boat with His disciples, but His disciples had gone away alone—
Joh 6:23 however, other boats came from Tiberias, near the place where they ate bread after the Lord had given thanks—
Joh 6:24 when the crowd therefore saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they got into boats and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
Joh 6:25 And having found Him on the other side of the sea, they said to Him, "Rabbi, when did You come here?"
Joh 6:26 Jesus answered them and said, "Most assuredly I say to you, you seek Me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled.
Joh 6:27 Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you; for upon Him God the Father has set His seal."
Joh 6:28 Then they said to Him, "What should we do, that we may work the works of God?"
Joh 6:29 Jesus answered and said to them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He sent."
Joh 6:30 Therefore they said to Him, "What sign will You do then, so that we may see it and believe You? What work do You perform?
Joh 6:31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to eat.' "
Joh 6:32 Then Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread from heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
Joh 6:33 For the bread of God is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world."
Joh 6:34 Then they said to Him, "Lord, give us this bread always."
Joh 6:35 And Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me shall never hunger, and he who believes in Me shall never thirst.
Joh 6:36 But I told you that you have both seen Me and you do not believe.
Joh 6:37 All that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and whoever comes to Me I will by no means cast out.
Joh 6:38 For I have come down from heaven, not that I might do My will, but the will of Him who sent Me.
Joh 6:39 And this is the will of the Father who sent Me, that of all He has given Me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day.
Joh 6:40 And this is the will of Him who sent Me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day."
Joh 6:41 Therefore the Jews were murmuring about Him, because He said, "I am the bread which came down from heaven."
Joh 6:42 And they were saying, "Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then does this Man say, 'I have come down from heaven'?"
Joh 6:43 Jesus therefore answered and said to them, "Do not murmur among yourselves.
Joh 6:44 No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me should draw him; and I will raise him up at the last day.
Joh 6:45 It is written in the prophets, 'AND THEY SHALL ALL BE TAUGHT OF GOD.' Therefore everyone who hears from the Father, and has learned, comes to Me.
Joh 6:46 Not that anyone has seen the Father, except He who is from God; He has seen the Father.
Joh 6:47 Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in Me has eternal life.
Joh 6:48 I am the bread of life.
Joh 6:49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
Joh 6:50 This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that one may eat of it and not die.
Joh 6:51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever; and the bread that I shall give is My flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world."
Joh 6:52 Therefore the Jews were contending with one another, saying, "How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?"
Joh 6:53 Then Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in yourselves.
Joh 6:54 Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
Joh 6:55 For My flesh truly is food, and My blood truly is drink.
Joh 6:56 He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him.
Joh 6:57 Just as the living Father sent Me, and I live because of the Father, so he who feeds on Me will live because of Me.
Joh 6:58 This is the bread which came down from heaven, not as your fathers ate the manna, and died. Whoever eats this bread shall live forever."
Joh 6:59 These things He said in the synagogue as He taught in Capernaum.
Joh 6:60 Therefore many of His disciples, when they heard this, said, "This is a hard saying; who can hear it?"
Joh 6:61 And Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, He said to them, "Does this offend you?
Joh 6:62 What then if you should see the Son of Man ascending where He was before?
Joh 6:63 It is the Spirit who makes alive; the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life.
Joh 6:64 But there are some of you who do not believe." (For Jesus knew from the beginning who were the ones who did not believe, and who was the one who would betray Him).
Joh 6:65 And He said, "Because of this I have said to you that no one can come to Me unless it has been granted to him by My Father."
Joh 6:66 From this time many of His disciples turned back and no longer walked with Him.
Joh 6:67 Then Jesus said to the twelve, "Do you also want to go away?"
Joh 6:68 But Simon Peter answered Him, "Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life.
Joh 6:69 Also we have come to believe and know that You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."
Joh 6:70 Jesus answered them, "Did I not choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil?"
Joh 6:71 Now He was speaking about Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for he was intending to betray Him, though he was one of the twelve.
Joh 7:1 And after these things Jesus was walking in Galilee; for He did not wish to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.
Joh 7:2 Now the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles was near.
Joh 7:3 His brothers therefore said to Him, "Depart from here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may see the works that You do.
Joh 7:4 For no one does anything in secret while he himself seeks to be known publicly. If You do these things, show Yourself to the world."
Joh 7:5 For not even His brothers believed in Him.
Joh 7:6 Then Jesus said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
Joh 7:7 The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me because I testify about it, that its works are evil.
Joh 7:8 You go up to this feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because My time has not yet been fulfilled."
Joh 7:9 When He had said these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
Joh 7:10 But when His brothers had gone up, then also He Himself went up to the feast, not openly, but in private.
Joh 7:11 Then the Jews were seeking Him at the feast, and said, "Where is He?"
Joh 7:12 And there was much murmuring among the crowds concerning Him. Some on the one hand were saying, "He is a good Man"; while others were saying, "No, on the contrary, He deceives the people."
Joh 7:13 However, no one spoke openly of Him for fear of the Jews.
Joh 7:14 But now about the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach.
Joh 7:15 And the Jews were marveling, saying, "How has this Man become learned, since He has not been educated?"
Joh 7:16 Therefore Jesus answered them and said, "My doctrine is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
Joh 7:17 If anyone desires to do His will, he will know about the doctrine, whether it is from God, or whether I am speaking on My own authority.
Joh 7:18 He who speaks from himself is seeking his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of the One who sent Him is true, and there is no unrighteousness in Him.
Joh 7:19 Has not Moses given you the law, yet none of you keeps the law? Why are you seeking to kill Me?"
Joh 7:20 The crowd answered and said, "You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill You?"
Joh 7:21 Jesus answered and said to them, "I did one work, and you all marvel.
Joh 7:22 Because of this Moses has given you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath.
Joh 7:23 If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses should not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made a man completely well on the Sabbath?
Joh 7:24 Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment."
Joh 7:25 Therefore some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, "Is this not He whom they are seeking to kill?
Joh 7:26 And look! He is speaking publicly, and they say nothing to Him. Can it be that the rulers know indeed that this is truly the Messiah?
Joh 7:27 However, we know where this Man is from; but whenever the Messiah comes, no one knows where He is from."
Joh 7:28 Therefore Jesus cried out, as He was teaching in the temple, saying, "You both know Me, and you know where I am from; and I have not come of my own accord, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know.
Joh 7:29 I know Him, for I am from Him, and He sent Me."
Joh 7:30 Therefore they were seeking to arrest Him; but no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
Joh 7:31 But many of the crowd believed in Him, and were saying, "When the Messiah comes, will He do more signs than these which this Man has done?"
Joh 7:32 The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent attendants so that they might arrest Him.
Joh 7:33 Then Jesus said, "Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go to Him who sent Me.
Joh 7:34 You will seek Me and you will not find Me, and where I am you cannot come."
Joh 7:35 Therefore the Jews said among themselves, "Where does this man intend to go that we will not find Him? Does He intend to go into the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
Joh 7:36 What is this thing which He said, 'You will seek Me and you will not find Me, and where I am you cannot come'?"
Joh 7:37 Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, "If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
Joh 7:38 He that believes in Me, as the Scripture has said, out of his belly will flow rivers of living water."
Joh 7:39 (But this He spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in Him were about to receive; for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified).
Joh 7:40 Therefore many from the crowd, when they heard this saying, said, "Truly this is the Prophet."
Joh 7:41 Others said, "This is the Messiah." Others said, "Surely the Messiah is not to come out of Galilee, is He?
Joh 7:42 Has not the Scripture said that the Messiah comes from the seed of David and from the village of Bethlehem, where David was?"
Joh 7:43 Therefore a division occurred among the crowd because of Him.
Joh 7:44 Now some of them wished to arrest Him, but no one laid a hand on Him.
Joh 7:45 Then the attendants came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, "Why did you not bring Him?"
Joh 7:46 The attendants answered them, "No man ever spoke like this Man!"
Joh 7:47 Then the Pharisees answered them, "Have you also been deceived?
Joh 7:48 Have any of the rulers or the Pharisees believed in Him?
Joh 7:49 But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed."
Joh 7:50 Nicodemus (he who came to Him by night, being one of them) said to them,
Joh 7:51 “Does our law judge a man before it hears from him first, and knows what he is doing?"
Joh 7:52 They answered and said to him, "Are you also from Galilee? Search and see, because no prophet has arisen out of Galilee."
Joh 7:53 And everyone went to his own house.
Joh 8:1 But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
Joh 8:2 And early in the morning, He came again into the temple, and all the people came to Him; and having sat down, He began to teach them.
Joh 8:3 Then the scribes and Pharisees brought to Him a woman who had been caught in adultery, and having stood her in the midst,
Joh 8:4 they said to Him, "Teacher, we found this woman committing adultery, in the very act.
Joh 8:5 Now Moses, in our law, commanded to cast stones at such. Therefore what do You say?"
Joh 8:6 But this they said, testing Him, that they might have an accusation against Him. But Jesus, stooping down, began to write on the ground with His finger, not taking notice.
Joh 8:7 And while they were continuing questioning Him, rising up, He said unto them, "He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to cast a stone at her."
Joh 8:8 And again He stooped down and wrote on the ground.
Joh 8:9 And those who heard it began to go out one by one, beginning with the oldest even to the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman being in the midst.
Joh 8:10 And standing up and seeing no one but the woman, Jesus said to her, "Woman, where are those accusers of yours? Has no one condemned you?"
Joh 8:11 She said, "No one, Lord." And Jesus said to her, "Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more."
Joh 8:12 Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying, "I am the light of the world. He that follows Me shall by no means walk in darkness, but will have the light of life."
Joh 8:13 Therefore the Pharisees said to Him, "You testify about Yourself; Your testimony is not true."
Joh 8:14 Jesus answered and said to them, "Even if I should testify about Myself, My testimony is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
Joh 8:15 You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
Joh 8:16 But even if I do judge, My judgment is true; because I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent Me.
Joh 8:17 It is also written in your law that the testimony of two men is true.
Joh 8:18 I am the One testifying about Myself, and the Father who sent Me testifies about Me."
Joh 8:19 Then they said to Him, "Where is Your Father?" Jesus answered, "You know neither Me nor My Father. If you knew Me, you would also know My Father."
Joh 8:20 These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, while teaching in the temple; and no one seized Him, for His time had not yet come.
Joh 8:21 Then Jesus said to them again, "I am going away, and you will seek Me, and will die in your sin. Where I go you cannot come."
Joh 8:22 So the Jews said, "Surely He will not kill Himself, will He, since He says, 'Where I am going you cannot come'?"
Joh 8:23 And He said to them, "You are from below; I am from above. You are from this world; I am not from this world.
Joh 8:24 Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for if you do not believe that I AM, you will die in your sins."
Joh 8:25 Then they said to Him, "Who are You?" And Jesus said to them, "Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning.
Joh 8:26 I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true; and the things which I heard from Him, these things I say to the world."
Joh 8:27 They did not know that He was speaking to them about the Father.
Joh 8:28 Therefore Jesus said to them, "When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I AM, and from Myself I do nothing; but just as My Father taught Me, these things I speak.
Joh 8:29 And He who sent Me is with Me. The Father has not left Me alone, because I always do the things that are pleasing to Him."
Joh 8:30 While He spoke these words, many believed in Him.
Joh 8:31 Then Jesus said to those Jews who had believed Him, "If you abide in My word, truly you are My disciples.
Joh 8:32 And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free."
Joh 8:33 They answered Him, "We are Abraham's descendants, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say, 'You will become free'?"
Joh 8:34 Jesus answered them, "Most assuredly I say to you, that everyone that practices sin is a slave of sin.
Joh 8:35 And a slave does not remain in the house forever, but a son remains forever.
Joh 8:36 Therefore if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free.
Joh 8:37 "I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill Me, because My word finds no place in you.
Joh 8:38 I speak what I have seen with My Father, and you do what you have seen with your father."
Joh 8:39 They answered and said to Him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham.
Joh 8:40 But now you seek to kill Me, a Man who has spoken to you the truth which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this.
Joh 8:41 You do the works of your father." Then they said to Him, "We were not born of fornication; we have one Father—God."
Joh 8:42 Therefore Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would have loved Me, for I came forth and have come from God; nor have I come from Myself, but He sent Me.
Joh 8:43 Why do you not understand what I say? Because you are unable to hear My word.
Joh 8:44 You are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father you desire to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he tells a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar, and the father of lies.
Joh 8:45 But because I tell the truth, you do not believe Me.
Joh 8:46 Which of you convicts Me of sin? And if I tell the truth, why do you not believe Me?
Joh 8:47 He who is of God hears God's words; therefore you do not hear them, because you are not of God."
Joh 8:48 Then the Jews answered and said to Him, "Do we not say well that You are a Samaritan, and You have a demon?"
Joh 8:49 Jesus answered, "I do not have a demon; but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
Joh 8:50 And I do not seek My own glory; there is One who seeks it and who judges.
Joh 8:51 Most assuredly I say to you, if anyone keeps My word he shall by no means experience death."
Joh 8:52 Then the Jews said to Him, "Now we know that You have a demon! Abraham and the prophets died, and You say, 'If anyone keeps My word he shall by no means taste death.'
Joh 8:53 "Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? Also the prophets died. Whom do You make Yourself out to be?"
Joh 8:54 Jesus answered, "If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing. It is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is our God.
Joh 8:55 And yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. And if I would say that I do not know Him, I would be like you, a liar; but I do know Him, and I keep His word.
Joh 8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw it and was glad."
Joh 8:57 Then the Jews said to Him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?"
Joh 8:58 Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was, I AM."
Joh 8:59 Therefore they picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself and went out of the temple, having gone through their midst, and so passed by.
Joh 9:1 And passing by, He saw a man blind from birth.
Joh 9:2 And His disciples asked Him, saying, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?"
Joh 9:3 Jesus answered, "Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but so that the works of God should be manifest in him.
Joh 9:4 I must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; the night is coming when no one can work.
Joh 9:5 While I am in the world, I am the light of the world."
Joh 9:6 Having said these things, He spat on the ground and made clay from the saliva; and He applied the clay on the eyes of the blind man.
Joh 9:7 And He said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which is translated, Sent). So he went and washed, and came back seeing.
Joh 9:8 Therefore the neighbors and those who previously saw him, that he was blind, were saying, "Is not this he who sat and begged?"
Joh 9:9 Some said, "This is he." Others said, "He looks like him." But he kept saying, "I am he."
Joh 9:10 Therefore they said to him, "How were your eyes opened?"
Joh 9:11 He answered and said, "A Man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and He said to me, 'Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.' When I had gone and washed, I received my sight."
Joh 9:12 Then they said to him, "Where is He?" He said, "I do not know."
Joh 9:13 They brought him who was once blind to the Pharisees.
Joh 9:14 Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Joh 9:15 Then again the Pharisees were asking him how he received his sight. And he said to them, "He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see."
Joh 9:16 Therefore some of the Pharisees were saying, "This Man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath." Others said, "How can a sinful man do such signs?" And there was a division among them.
Joh 9:17 They said to the blind man again, "What do you say about Him, since He has opened your eyes?" He said, "He is a prophet."
Joh 9:18 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he was blind and received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight.
Joh 9:19 And they asked them, saying, "Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?"
Joh 9:20 And his parents answered them and said, "We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
Joh 9:21 but how he now sees we do not know, or who opened his eyes we do not know. He is of age; ask him. He will speak for himself."
Joh 9:22 These things his parents said because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had agreed already that if anyone should confess that He was Christ, he would be excommunicated.
Joh 9:23 On account of this his parents said, "He is of age; ask him."
Joh 9:24 Therefore they called a second time the man who was blind, and said to him, "Give glory to God! We know that this Man is a sinner."
Joh 9:25 He answered and said, "Whether He is a sinner or not I do not know. One thing I do know: that although I was blind, now I see."
Joh 9:26 Then they said to him again, "What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?"
Joh 9:27 He answered them, "I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you wish to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?"
Joh 9:28 Then they reviled him and said, "You are His disciple, but we are Moses’ disciples.
Joh 9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses; but as for this Man, we do not know where He is from."
Joh 9:30 The man answered and said to them, "Why, this is a remarkable thing, that you do not know where He is from; yet He opened my eyes!
Joh 9:31 Now we know that God does not hear sinners; but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him.
Joh 9:32 Since eternity past it was unheard of that anyone opened the eyes of one having been born blind.
Joh 9:33 If this Man were not from God, He could do nothing."
Joh 9:34 They answered and said to him, "You were completely born in sins, and do you teach us?" And they cast him out.
Joh 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and having found him, He said to him, "Do you believe in the Son of God?"
Joh 9:36 He answered and said, "And who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?"
Joh 9:37 And Jesus said to him, "You have both seen Him and it is He who is speaking with you."
Joh 9:38 Then he said, "Lord, I believe!" And he worshiped Him.
Joh 9:39 And Jesus said, "For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see might become blind."
Joh 9:40 Then some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things, and said to Him, "Are we blind also?"
Joh 9:41 Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, 'We see.' Therefore your sin remains.
Joh 10:1 "Most assuredly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but climbs up some other way, he is a thief and a robber.
Joh 10:2 But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
Joh 10:3 To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name and he leads them out.
Joh 10:4 And whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them; and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.
Joh 10:5 But they will by no means follow a stranger, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers."
Joh 10:6 This illustration Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand the things which He spoke to them.
Joh 10:7 Then Jesus said to them again, "Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
Joh 10:8 All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
Joh 10:9 I am the door. If anyone enters by Me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture.
Joh 10:10 The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
Joh 10:11 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
Joh 10:12 But a hired hand, he who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them.
Joh 10:13 But the hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and is not concerned about the sheep.
Joh 10:14 I am the good shepherd; and I know My own, and I am known by My own.
Joh 10:15 Just as the Father knows Me, I also know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep.
Joh 10:16 And other sheep I have which are not of this fold; those also I must bring, and they will hear My voice; and there shall be one flock and one shepherd.
Joh 10:17 For this reason My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it up again.
Joh 10:18 No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This command I have received from My Father."
Joh 10:19 Therefore there was a division again among the Jews because of these words.
Joh 10:20 And many of them said, "He has a demon and is raving mad. Why do you listen to Him?"
Joh 10:21 Others said, "These are not the words of one being demon-possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?"
Joh 10:22 Now it was the Feast of Dedication in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
Joh 10:23 And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon's porch.
Joh 10:24 Then the Jews encircled Him and said to Him, "How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly."
Joh 10:25 Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in My Father's name, these things testify about Me.
Joh 10:26 But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep, just as I said to you.
Joh 10:27 My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me.
Joh 10:28 And I give to them eternal life, and they shall never perish; and no one will snatch them out of My hand.
Joh 10:29 My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of My Father's hand.
Joh 10:30 I and the Father are one."
Joh 10:31 Therefore the Jews took up stones again to stone Him.
Joh 10:32 Jesus answered them, "Many good works I have shown you from My Father. For which of those works do you stone Me?"
Joh 10:33 The Jews answered Him, saying, "For a good work we do not stone You, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a Man, make Yourself God."
Joh 10:34 Jesus answered them, "Is it not written in your law, 'I SAID, "YOU ARE GODS" '?
Joh 10:35 If He called those gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture cannot be broken),
Joh 10:36 do you say of Him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, 'You are blaspheming,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God'?
Joh 10:37 If I am not doing the works of My Father, do not believe Me;
Joh 10:38 but if I am doing them, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in Me, and I in Him."
Joh 10:39 Therefore they were seeking again to seize Him, but He escaped from their hand.
Joh 10:40 And He went away again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing, and He stayed there.
Joh 10:41 And many came to Him and said, "John indeed performed no sign, but everything which John said about this Man was true."
Joh 10:42 And many believed in Him there.
Joh 11:1 Now there was a certain man who was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
Joh 11:2 Now it was that Mary who had anointed the Lord with myrrh, and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
Joh 11:3 Therefore the sisters sent to Him, saying, "Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick."
Joh 11:4 And when Jesus heard, He said, "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified through it."
Joh 11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
Joh 11:6 Therefore when He heard that he was sick, He then stayed in the place where He was for two days.
Joh 11:7 Then after this He said to the disciples, "Let us go into Judea again."
Joh 11:8 The disciples said to Him, "Rabbi, just now the Jews were seeking to stone You, and are You going there again?"
Joh 11:9 Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
Joh 11:10 But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him."
Joh 11:11 These things He said, and after this He said to them, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awaken him."
Joh 11:12 Then His disciples said, "Lord, if he has fallen asleep he will get well."
Joh 11:13 However, Jesus spoke about his death, but they thought that He was speaking about resting in sleep.
Joh 11:14 Then Jesus said to them plainly, "Lazarus is dead.
Joh 11:15 And I rejoice for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless let us go to him."
Joh 11:16 Then Thomas, who is called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, "Let us also go, so that we may die with Him."
Joh 11:17 Therefore when He had come, Jesus found that he had already been in the tomb four days.
Joh 11:18 Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles away.
Joh 11:19 And many of the Jews had come to the women around Martha and Mary, so that they might console them concerning their brother.
Joh 11:20 Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, met Him, but Mary was sitting in the house.
Joh 11:21 Then Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.
Joh 11:22 But even now I know that whatever You may ask of God, God will give You."
Joh 11:23 Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."
Joh 11:24 Martha said to Him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."
Joh 11:25 Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. He that believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live.
Joh 11:26 And everyone who lives and believes in Me shall never die. Do you believe this?"
Joh 11:27 She said to Him, "Yes, Lord, I believe that You are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world."
Joh 11:28 And when she had said these things, she went out and secretly called Mary her sister, saying, "The Teacher is here and is calling for you."
Joh 11:29 As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly and came to Him.
Joh 11:30 Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met Him.
Joh 11:31 Then the Jews who were with her in the house and consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying, "She is going to the tomb, so that she may weep there."
Joh 11:32 Then, when Mary came where Jesus was, seeing Him, she fell down at His feet, saying to Him, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died."
Joh 11:33 Therefore, when Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come along with her weeping, He groaned in the spirit and was troubled.
Joh 11:34 And He said, "Where have you laid him?" They said to Him, "Lord, come and see."
Joh 11:35 Jesus wept.
Joh 11:36 Therefore the Jews were saying, "Look how He loved him!"
Joh 11:37 But some of them said, "Could not this Man, who opened the eyes of the blind, have done something to keep this man from dying?"
Joh 11:38 Then Jesus, again groaning in Himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying upon it.
Joh 11:39 Jesus said, "Take away the stone." Martha, the sister of the one having died, said to Him, "Lord, already there is a stench, for he has been dead four days."
Joh 11:40 Jesus said to her, "Did I not say to you that if you would believe you would see the glory of God?"
Joh 11:41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. And Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, "Father, I thank You that You have heard Me.
Joh 11:42 And I knew that You always hear Me, but because of the people standing around I said this, so that they may believe that You sent Me."
Joh 11:43 And having said these things, He cried out with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come forth!"
Joh 11:44 And the one having died came out, bound hands and feet with grave clothes, and his face was wrapped in a handkerchief. Jesus said to them, "Loose him, and let him go."
Joh 11:45 Therefore many of the Jews who had come to Mary, and seeing the things which Jesus had done, believed in Him.
Joh 11:46 But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done.
Joh 11:47 Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, "What are we doing? For this Man works many signs.
Joh 11:48 If we leave Him alone in this way, all will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and will take away both our place and nation."
Joh 11:49 But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, "You don’t know anything,
Joh 11:50 nor do you consider that it is advantageous for us that one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation should perish."
Joh 11:51 Now this he did not say on his own, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation,
Joh 11:52 and not for that nation only, but also that He would gather together in one the children of God who were scattered abroad.
Joh 11:53 Therefore from that day on they took counsel together, that they might kill Him.
Joh 11:54 Therefore Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but He went away from there into the country near the desert, to a city called Ephraim, and there He stayed with His disciples.
Joh 11:55 Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went from the country up to Jerusalem before the Passover, so that they might purify themselves.
Joh 11:56 Then they were seeking Jesus, and they were speaking with one another, standing in the temple, "What do you think—that He will definitely not come to the feast?"
Joh 11:57 Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a command, that if anyone knew where He was, he should report it, so that they might seize Him.
Joh 12:1 Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was who had died, whom He raised from the dead.
Joh 12:2 Then they made for Him a supper there; and Martha was serving, but Lazarus was one of those reclining to eat with Him.
Joh 12:3 Then Mary, having taken a pound of very costly pure nard, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
Joh 12:4 Then one of His disciples, Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, who was about to betray Him, said,
Joh 12:5 Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?"
Joh 12:6 This he said, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the money box; and he used to pilfer the things which were placed in it.
Joh 12:7 But Jesus said, "Let her alone; she has kept this for the day of My burial.
Joh 12:8 For the poor you have with you always, but Me you do not have always."
Joh 12:9 Now a large crowd from the Jews knew that He was there; and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead.
Joh 12:10 But the chief priests took counsel, that they might also kill Lazarus,
Joh 12:11 because on account of him many of the Jews were going away, and were believing in Jesus.
Joh 12:12 On the next day a large crowd which was coming to the feast, having heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
Joh 12:13 took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and they were crying out, "Hosanna! 'BLESSED IS HE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD!' The King of Israel!"
Joh 12:14 Then Jesus, when He had found a young donkey, He sat on it; as it is written:
Joh 12:15 "DO NOT FEAR, DAUGHTER OF ZION; BEHOLD, YOUR KING IS COMING, SITTING ON THE COLT OF A DONKEY."
Joh 12:16 His disciples did not understand these things at first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about Him, and that they did these things to Him.
Joh 12:17 Therefore the crowd which was with Him when He called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead, was testifying.
Joh 12:18 On account of this the crowd also met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign.
Joh 12:19 The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, "You see that you are not doing any good. Look, the world has gone after Him!"
Joh 12:20 And there were some Greeks among those coming up, so that they might worship at the feast.
Joh 12:21 Then they approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and they asked him, saying, "Sir, we wish to see Jesus."
Joh 12:22 Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
Joh 12:23 But Jesus answered them, saying, "The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified.
Joh 12:24 Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
Joh 12:25 He that loves his life shall lose it, and he that hates his life in this world shall keep it for eternal life.
Joh 12:26 And if anyone serve Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there My servant shall be also. If anyone serve Me, him My Father will honor.
Joh 12:27 "Now My soul has been troubled, and what shall I say? 'Father, save Me from this hour'? But for this reason I came to this hour.
Joh 12:28 Father, glorify Your name." Then a voice came out of heaven, saying, "I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again."
Joh 12:29 Therefore the crowd which was standing and heard were saying that it had thundered. Others were saying, "An angel has spoken to Him."
Joh 12:30 Jesus answered and said, "This voice did not come for My sake, but for your sake.
Joh 12:31 Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world shall be cast out.
Joh 12:32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all peoples to Myself."
Joh 12:33 This He said, signifying by what kind of death He was about to die.
Joh 12:34 The crowd answered Him, "We heard from the law that the Christ abides forever; and so how do You say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up'? Who is this Son of Man?"
Joh 12:35 Then Jesus said to them, "For yet a little while longer the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you; he who walks in darkness does not know where he is going.
Joh 12:36 While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light." These things Jesus spoke, and departing, He was hidden from them.
Joh 12:37 But even though He had done so many signs in their presence, they did not believe in Him,
Joh 12:38 that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he said: "LORD, WHO HAS BELIEVED OUR REPORT? AND TO WHOM HAS THE ARM OF THE LORD BEEN REVEALED?"
Joh 12:39 Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah said again:
Joh 12:40 "HE HAS BLINDED THEIR EYES AND HARDENED THEIR HEARTS, LEST THEY SHOULD SEE WITH THEIR EYES, LEST THEY SHOULD UNDERSTAND WITH THEIR HEARTS AND TURN, AND I WOULD HEAL THEM."
Joh 12:41 These things Isaiah said when he saw His glory and spoke about Him.
Joh 12:42 Nevertheless even from among the rulers many believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, lest they should be excommunicated;
Joh 12:43 for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.
Joh 12:44 Then Jesus cried out and said, "He who believes in Me, believes not in Me but in Him who sent Me.
Joh 12:45 And he who sees Me sees Him who sent Me.
Joh 12:46 I have come as a light into the world, so that whoever believes in Me may not abide in darkness.
Joh 12:47 And if anyone hears My words and does not believe, I do not judge him; for I did not come that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world.
Joh 12:48 He that rejects Me, and does not receive My words, has that which judges him—the word which I spoke, that word will judge him in the last day.
Joh 12:49 For I have not spoken on My own authority; but the Father who sent Me gave Me a command, what I should say and what I should speak.
Joh 12:50 And I know that His command is eternal life. Therefore, whatever I speak, as the Father has said to Me, so I speak."
Joh 13:1 Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that His hour had come that He should depart from this world to the Father, having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end.
Joh 13:2 And after supper, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray Him,
Joh 13:3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands, and that He had come from God and was going to God,
Joh 13:4 He rose from supper and laid aside His garments, and having taken a towel, He girded Himself.
Joh 13:5 Then He poured water into a basin and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to dry them with the towel with which He was girded.
Joh 13:6 Then He came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to Him, "Lord, do You wash my feet?"
Joh 13:7 Jesus answered and said to him, "What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand."
Joh 13:8 Peter said to Him, "You shall never wash my feet!" Jesus answered him, "Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me."
Joh 13:9 Simon Peter said to Him, "Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!"
Joh 13:10 Jesus said to him, “He that is bathed need only to wash his feet, but is completely clean; and you are clean, but not all of you."
Joh 13:11 For He knew who would betray Him; for this reason He said, "You are not all clean."
Joh 13:12 So when He had washed their feet, and had taken His garments, He reclined again, and said to them, "Do you know what I have done to you?
Joh 13:13 You call me Teacher and Lord, and you say correctly, for so I am.
Joh 13:14 Therefore if I, your Lord and your Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
Joh 13:15 For I gave you an example, that just as I did to you, you also should do.
Joh 13:16 Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than he who sent him.
Joh 13:17 If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
Joh 13:18 I do not speak concerning all of you. I know those whom I chose; but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, 'HE WHO EATS BREAD WITH ME HAS LIFTED UP HIS HEEL AGAINST ME.'
Joh 13:19 From now on I tell you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe that I AM.
Joh 13:20 Most assuredly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives Me; and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me."
Joh 13:21 When Jesus had said these things, He was troubled in His spirit, and testified and said, "Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray Me."
Joh 13:22 Therefore the disciples were looking at one another, perplexed about whom He was speaking.
Joh 13:23 Now there was reclining on Jesus' bosom one of His disciples, the one whom Jesus loved.
Joh 13:24 Simon Peter therefore motioned to him to inquire who it might be about whom He was speaking.
Joh 13:25 Then, leaning back thus on Jesus' chest, he said to Him, "Lord, who is it?"
Joh 13:26 Jesus answered, "It is the one to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it." And having dipped the bread, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
Joh 13:27 And after the piece of bread, then Satan entered him. Therefore Jesus said to him, "What you do, do quickly."
Joh 13:28 But no one reclining at the table knew for what purpose He said this to him.
Joh 13:29 For some were thinking, since Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, "Buy the things of which we need for the feast," or that he should give something to the poor.
Joh 13:30 Therefore having received the piece of bread, he then went out immediately. And it was night.
Joh 13:31 When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him.
Joh 13:32 If God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him immediately.
Joh 13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek Me; and as I said to the Jews, 'Where I am going, you cannot come,' so now I say to you.
Joh 13:34 A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
Joh 13:35 By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another."
Joh 13:36 Simon Peter said to Him, "Lord, where are You going?" Jesus answered him, "Where I am going you cannot follow Me now, but later you will follow Me."
Joh 13:37 Peter said to Him, "Lord, why can I not follow You now? I will lay down my life for You."
Joh 13:38 Jesus answered him, "Will you lay down your life for Me? Most assuredly I say to you, the rooster shall by no means crow till you deny Me three times.
Joh 14:1 "Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God, believe also in Me.
Joh 14:2 In My Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
Joh 14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and I will receive you unto Myself; so that where I am, there you may be also.
Joh 14:4 And where I am going you know, and the way you know."
Joh 14:5 Thomas said to Him, "Lord, we do not know where You are going, and how can we know the way?"
Joh 14:6 Jesus said to him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me.
Joh 14:7 "If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and from now on you know Him and you have seen Him."
Joh 14:8 Philip said to Him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us."
Joh 14:9 Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you for so long a time, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He that has seen Me has seen the Father; so how can you say, 'Show us the Father'?
Joh 14:10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me? The words which I speak to you I do not speak on My own authority; but the Father who abides in Me does the works.
Joh 14:11 Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me, but if not, believe Me for the sake of the works themselves.
Joh 14:12 "Most assuredly I say to you, he that believes in Me, the works which I do he will do also; and greater works than these he will do, because I go to My Father.
Joh 14:13 And whatever you may ask in My name, this I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
Joh 14:14 If you should ask anything in My name, I will do it.
Joh 14:15 "If you love Me, keep My commandments.
Joh 14:16 And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Helper, so that He may abide with you forever,
Joh 14:17 the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall be in you.
Joh 14:18 I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you.
Joh 14:19 "Yet a little while and the world will see Me no more, but you will see Me. Because I live, you will live also.
Joh 14:20 In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
Joh 14:21 He that has My commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves Me. And he who loves Me shall be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will manifest Myself to him."
Joh 14:22 Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, "Lord, and what has happened that You are about to manifest Yourself to us, and not to the world?"
Joh 14:23 Jesus answered and said to him, "If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word; and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and we will make Our home with him.
Joh 14:24 He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine but the Father's who sent Me.
Joh 14:25 "These things I have spoken to you while I remain.
Joh 14:26 But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and will remind you of all things which I said to you.
Joh 14:27 Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
Joh 14:28 You have heard that I said to you, 'I am going away and coming back to you.' If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced that I said, 'I am going to the Father,' for My Father is greater than I.
Joh 14:29 And now I have told you before it happens, so that whenever it may happen, you may believe.
Joh 14:30 I will no longer speak many things with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in Me.
Joh 14:31 But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father has charged Me, thus I do. Rise up, let us go from here.
Joh 15:1 "I am the true vine, and My Father is the vinedresser.
Joh 15:2 Every branch in Me which does not bear fruit He takes away; and every branch which bears fruit He prunes, so that it may bear more fruit.
Joh 15:3 You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
Joh 15:4 Abide in Me, and I in you. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit on its own, unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in Me.
Joh 15:5 I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; because apart from Me you can do nothing.
Joh 15:6 If anyone does not abide in Me, he is cast out like a branch and dries up; and they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned.
Joh 15:7 If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you, you will ask whatever you may desire, and it shall be done for you.
Joh 15:8 By this My Father is glorified, that you may bear much fruit; and you will become My disciples.
Joh 15:9 "Just as the Father loved Me, I also have loved you; abide in My love.
Joh 15:10 If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love, just as I have kept My Father's commandments and I abide in His love.
Joh 15:11 These things I have spoken to you, that My joy may abide in you, and that your joy may be full.
Joh 15:12 This is My commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.
Joh 15:13 Greater love has no one than this, that one should lay down his life for his friends.
Joh 15:14 You are My friends if you do what I command you.
Joh 15:15 No longer do I call you servants, because a servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, because all things which I heard from My Father I have made known to you.
Joh 15:16 You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain, so that whatever you may ask the Father in My name He may give to you.
Joh 15:17 These things I command you, that you may love one another.
Joh 15:18 "If the world hates you, you know that it hated Me before it hated you.
Joh 15:19 If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you.
Joh 15:20 Remember the word which I said to you, 'A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you. If they kept My word, they will keep yours also.
Joh 15:21 But all these things they will do to you for My name's sake, because they do not know Him who sent Me.
Joh 15:22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they would have no sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.
Joh 15:23 He who hates Me hates My Father also.
Joh 15:24 If I had not done the works among them which no one else has done, they would have no sin; but now they have both seen and they have hated both Me and My Father.
Joh 15:25 But this was so that the word might be fulfilled which is written in their law, 'THEY HATED ME WITHOUT A CAUSE.'
Joh 15:26 "But when the Helper comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will testify about Me.
Joh 15:27 And you also will testify, because you have been with Me from the beginning.
Joh 16:1 "These things I have spoken to you, so that you should not be made to stumble.
Joh 16:2 They will excommunicate you; but the time is coming when everyone who kills you will think that he is offering God a service.
Joh 16:3 And these things they will do to you because they did not know the Father nor Me.
Joh 16:4 But these things I have spoken to you, so that when the time comes, you may remember them, that I told you. But these things I did not say to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
Joh 16:5 "But now I am going to Him who sent Me, and none of you asks Me, 'Where are You going?'
Joh 16:6 "But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
Joh 16:7 Nevertheless I speak the truth to you. It is profitable for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you; but if I depart, I will send Him to you.
Joh 16:8 And when He comes, He will convict the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:
Joh 16:9 of sin, because they do not believe in Me;
Joh 16:10 of righteousness, because I am going to My Father and you see Me no more;
Joh 16:11 of judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
Joh 16:12 I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
Joh 16:13 However, when He, the Spirit of truth, has come, He will guide you into all truth; for He will not speak on His own authority, but whatever He hears He will speak; and He will announce to you things to come.
Joh 16:14 He will glorify Me, for He will take from what is Mine and He will announce it to you.
Joh 16:15 All things which the Father has are Mine. Therefore I said that He takes from what is Mine and will announce it to you.
Joh 16:16 "A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me, because I am going to the Father."
Joh 16:17 Then some of His disciples said to one another, "What is this that He says to us, 'A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me'; and, 'I am going to the Father'?"
Joh 16:18 Therefore they said, "What is this that He says, 'A little while'? We do not understand what He is saying."
Joh 16:19 Now Jesus knew that they were desiring to ask Him, and He said to them, "Are you inquiring with one another that I said, 'A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me'?
Joh 16:20 Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; and you will be grieved, but your grief will be turned into joy.
Joh 16:21 A woman, whenever she gives birth, has sorrow, because her hour has come; but whenever the child is born, she no longer remembers the anguish, on account of the joy that a child has been born into the world.
Joh 16:22 Therefore you also now have sorrow; but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you.
Joh 16:23 And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Most assuredly, I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in My name He will give you.
Joh 16:24 Until now you have asked nothing in My name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
Joh 16:25 "These things I have spoken to you in figures of speech; but the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but I will tell you plainly about the Father.
Joh 16:26 In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will beseech the Father for you;
Joh 16:27 for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
Joh 16:28 I came forth from the Father and I have come into the world. Again, I am leaving the world and I am going to the Father."
Joh 16:29 His disciples said to Him, "See, now You are speaking plainly, and using no figure of speech!
Joh 16:30 Now we are sure that You know all things, and have no need that anyone should question You. By this we believe that You came forth from God."
Joh 16:31 Jesus answered them, "Now do you believe?
Joh 16:32 Behold, the hour is coming, and has now come, that you will be scattered, each to his own, and you will leave Me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.
Joh 16:33 These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but take courage, I have overcome the world."
Joh 17:1 Jesus spoke these words, lifted up His eyes to heaven, and said: "Father, the time has come. Glorify Your Son, that Your Son also may glorify You,
Joh 17:2 just as You have given Him authority over all flesh, so that He will give eternal life to all You have given Him.
Joh 17:3 And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom You have sent.
Joh 17:4 I have glorified You on the earth. I have finished the work which You have given Me to do.
Joh 17:5 And now, O Father, glorify Me alongside Yourself, with the glory which I had with You before the world was.
Joh 17:6 I have manifested Your name to the men whom You have given Me out of the world. They were Yours, You have given them to Me, and they have kept Your word.
Joh 17:7 Now they have known that all things which You have given Me are from You.
Joh 17:8 Because I have given to them the words which You have given Me; and they have received them, and they knew truly that I came forth from You; and they have believed that You sent Me.
Joh 17:9 I pray for them. I do not pray for the world but for those whom You have given Me, for they are Yours.
Joh 17:10 And all Mine are Yours, and Yours are Mine, and I have been glorified in them.
Joh 17:11 And I am no longer in the world, yet these are in the world, and I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name which You have given to Me, that they may be one just as We are.
Joh 17:12 When I was with them in the world, I kept them in Your name. Those whom You have given to Me I guarded; and not one of them is lost except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
Joh 17:13 But now I am coming to You, and these things I speak in the world, so that they may have My joy fulfilled in themselves.
Joh 17:14 I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Joh 17:15 I do not ask that You should take them out of the world, but that You should keep them from the evil one.
Joh 17:16 They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Joh 17:17 Sanctify them by Your truth; Your word is truth.
Joh 17:18 Just as You sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.
Joh 17:19 And for their sakes I sanctify Myself, that they also may be sanctified by the truth.
Joh 17:20 "I am not praying for these alone, but also for those who believe in Me through their word;
Joh 17:21 so that they all may be one, just as You, Father, are in Me, and I in You; that they also may be one in Us, so that the world may believe that You sent Me.
Joh 17:22 And the glory which You have given to Me, I have given to them, so that they may be one just as We are one:
Joh 17:23 I in them, and You in Me; so that they may be perfected in unity, and so that the world may know that You have sent Me, and You loved them just as You loved Me.
Joh 17:24 Father, I desire that those also whom You gave Me may be with Me where I am, so that they may behold My glory which You gave to Me; because You loved Me before the foundation of the world.
Joh 17:25 O righteous Father! Indeed the world has not known You, but I have known You; and these have known that You sent Me.
Joh 17:26 And I made known to them Your name, and I will make it known, so that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them."
Joh 18:1 After saying these things, Jesus went out with His disciples across the winter stream Kidron, where there was a garden, into which He and His disciples entered.
Joh 18:2 Now Judas, who was betraying Him, also knew the place, because Jesus often gathered there also with His disciples.
Joh 18:3 Then Judas, having taken the detachment of soldiers and attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.
Joh 18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing all things coming upon Him, went out and said to them, "Whom do you seek?"
Joh 18:5 They answered Him, "Jesus the Nazarene." Jesus said to them, "I AM." And Judas, the one betraying Him, was standing with them.
Joh 18:6 Therefore when He said to them, "I AM," they stepped back and fell to the ground.
Joh 18:7 Then He asked them again, "Whom do you seek?" And they said, "Jesus the Nazarene."
Joh 18:8 Jesus answered, "I have told you that I AM! Therefore if you seek Me, allow these men to go,"
Joh 18:9 so that the word might be fulfilled which He said, "Those whom You have given Me I have lost none."
Joh 18:10 Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And the servant's name was Malchus.
Joh 18:11 Then Jesus said to Peter, "Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup which My Father has given Me?"
Joh 18:12 Then the detachment of soldiers and the captain and the attendants of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound Him.
Joh 18:13 And they led Him away to Annas first, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas who was high priest that year.
Joh 18:14 Now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was profitable for one man to perish for the people.
Joh 18:15 And Simon Peter was following Jesus, as was the other disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest.
Joh 18:16 But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper, and brought Peter in.
Joh 18:17 Then the servant girl who kept the door said to Peter, "You are not also one of this Man's disciples, are you?" He said, "I am not."
Joh 18:18 And the servants and attendants who had made a fire of coals stood there, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves. Now Peter was standing with them and warming himself.
Joh 18:19 Then the high priest asked Jesus about His disciples and His doctrine.
Joh 18:20 Jesus answered him, "I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where the Jews always come together, and in secret I spoke nothing.
Joh 18:21 Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard Me, what I spoke to them. Indeed they know what I said."
Joh 18:22 And when He had said these things, one of the attendants who stood by slapped Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, "Is this how You answer the high priest?"
Joh 18:23 Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do you strike Me?"
Joh 18:24 Then Annas sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
Joh 18:25 Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Therefore they said to him, "You are not also one of His disciples, are you?" Then he denied it and said, "I am not!"
Joh 18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of him whose ear Peter cut off, said, "Did I not see you in the garden with Him?"
Joh 18:27 Peter then denied again; and immediately a rooster crowed.
Joh 18:28 Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium, and it was early morning. But they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium, lest they might be defiled, but so that they might eat the Passover.
Joh 18:29 Then Pilate went out to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this Man?"
Joh 18:30 They answered and said to him, "If He were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered Him over to you."
Joh 18:31 Then Pilate said to them, "You take Him and judge Him according to your law." Therefore the Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to kill anyone,"
Joh 18:32 that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He said, signifying by what sort of death He was about to die.
Joh 18:33 Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, and called Jesus, and said to Him, "Are You the King of the Jews?"
Joh 18:34 Jesus answered him, "For yourself do you say this, or did others tell you about Me?"
Joh 18:35 Pilate answered, "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?"
Joh 18:36 Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My servants would fight, so that I might not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is not from here."
Joh 18:37 Pilate therefore said to Him, "Are You a king then?" Jesus answered, "You say rightly that I am a king. For this reason I have been born, and for this reason I have come into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice."
Joh 18:38 Pilate said to Him, "What is truth?" And having said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, "I find no fault in Him.
Joh 18:39 "But you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore do you wish that I should release the King of the Jews?"
Joh 18:40 Then they all cried out again, saying, "Not this Man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas was a bandit.
Joh 19:1 So then Pilate took Jesus and flogged Him.
Joh 19:2 And the soldiers twisted a crown out of thorns and put it on His head, and they put a purple robe around Him.
Joh 19:3 And they kept saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" And they were striking Him with their hands.
Joh 19:4 Pilate then went out again, and said to them, "Behold, I am bringing Him out to you, so that you may know that I find no fault in Him."
Joh 19:5 Then Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them, "Behold, the Man!"
Joh 19:6 Therefore, when the chief priests and the attendants saw Him, they cried out, saying, "Crucify, crucify Him!" Pilate said to them, "You take Him and crucify Him, for I find no fault in Him."
Joh 19:7 The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and according to our law He ought to die, because He made Himself the Son of God."
Joh 19:8 Therefore, when Pilate heard this saying, he was even more afraid,
Joh 19:9 and he entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, "Where are You from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.
Joh 19:10 Then Pilate said to Him, "Are You not speaking to me? Do You not know that I have authority to crucify You, and I have authority to release You?"
Joh 19:11 Jesus answered, "You would have no authority at all against Me unless it had been given to you from above. Therefore the one who betrayed Me to you has a greater sin."
Joh 19:12 From this point Pilate was seeking to release Him, but the Jews kept crying out, saying, "If you release this Man, you are no friend of Caesar's. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar."
Joh 19:13 Therefore Pilate, having heard this saying, led Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat in a place that is called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Joh 19:14 Now it was the Preparation Day of the Passover, and about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, "Behold your King!"
Joh 19:15 But they cried out, "Away with Him, away with Him! Crucify Him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar!"
Joh 19:16 Then he delivered Him to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led Him away.
Joh 19:17 And bearing His cross, He went out to a place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha,
Joh 19:18 where they crucified Him, and two others with Him, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle.
Joh 19:19 Now Pilate wrote a title and he put it on the cross. And it was written: JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Joh 19:20 Then many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin.
Joh 19:21 Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,' but, 'He said, "I am the King of the Jews." ' "
Joh 19:22 Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."
Joh 19:23 Then the soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, took His garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was seamless, woven from the top in one piece.
Joh 19:24 Therefore they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots for it, whose it will be," so that the Scripture might be fulfilled which says: "THEY DIVIDED MY GARMENTS AMONG THEM, AND FOR MY CLOTHING THEY CAST LOTS." Therefore the soldiers did these things.
Joh 19:25 Now there stood by the cross of Jesus His mother, and His mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
Joh 19:26 Therefore Jesus, seeing His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing by, He said to His mother, "Woman, behold your son!"
Joh 19:27 Then He said to the disciple, "Behold your mother!" And from that hour that disciple took her into his own care.
Joh 19:28 After this, Jesus, seeing that all things already had been fulfilled, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled, He said, "I thirst!"
Joh 19:29 Now a vessel was set full of sour wine; and they, having filled a sponge with sour wine, put it around a hyssop, they held it to His mouth.
Joh 19:30 Therefore when Jesus received the sour wine, He said, "It is finished!" And bowing His head, He gave up His spirit.
Joh 19:31 Therefore the Jews, since it was the Preparation Day, that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and they might be taken away.
Joh 19:32 Then the soldiers came and they broke the legs of the first man, and of the other who was crucified with Him.
Joh 19:33 But having come to Jesus, when they saw that He was already dead, they did not break His legs.
Joh 19:34 But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
Joh 19:35 And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he tells the truth, so that you may believe.
Joh 19:36 For these things were done that the Scripture should be fulfilled, "Not a bone of His shall be broken."
Joh 19:37 And again another Scripture says, "THEY SHALL LOOK AT HIM WHOM THEY PIERCED."
Joh 19:38 After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus; and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away the body of Jesus.
Joh 19:39 And Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds.
Joh 19:40 Then they took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen strips with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury.
Joh 19:41 Now in the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been buried.
Joh 19:42 So there they laid Jesus, because of the Jews' Preparation Day, because the tomb was near.
Joh 20:1 On the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
Joh 20:2 Therefore she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said to them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid Him."
Joh 20:3 Peter therefore went out, and the other disciple, and were going to the tomb.
Joh 20:4 And the two together were running, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first.
Joh 20:5 And stooping to look in, he saw the linen strips lying there; however he did not go in.
Joh 20:6 Then Simon Peter came, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he saw the linen strips lying there,
Joh 20:7 and the facecloth which had been on His head, not lying with the linen strips, but apart from them, having been rolled up in one place.
Joh 20:8 Then the other disciple, who came to the tomb first, went in also; and he saw and believed.
Joh 20:9 For as yet they did not know the Scripture, that He must rise again from the dead.
Joh 20:10 Then the disciples went away again to their own homes.
Joh 20:11 But Mary stood outside facing the tomb weeping. Therefore as she was weeping, she stooped down and looked into the tomb.
Joh 20:12 And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
Joh 20:13 Then they said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they put Him."
Joh 20:14 And having said these things, she turned back and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus.
Joh 20:15 Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Whom do you seek?" She, supposing Him to be the gardener, said to Him, "Sir, if You carried Him away, tell me where You put Him, and I will take Him away."
Joh 20:16 Jesus said to her, "Mary!" She turned and said to Him, "Rabboni!" (which means, Teacher).
Joh 20:17 Jesus said to her, "Do not cling to Me, for I have not yet ascended to My Father; but go to My brothers and say to them, 'I am ascending to My Father and your Father, and to My God and your God.' "
Joh 20:18 Mary Magdalene went reporting to the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that He had spoken these things to her.
Joh 20:19 Then, the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them, "Peace to you."
Joh 20:20 And having said this, He showed them His hands and His side. Then the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord.
Joh 20:21 Therefore Jesus said to them again, "Peace to you! Just as the Father has sent Me, I also send you."
Joh 20:22 And when He had said this, He breathed on them, and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit.
Joh 20:23 If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you retain the sins of any, they have been retained."
Joh 20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, the one called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
Joh 20:25 The other disciples therefore said to him, "We have seen the Lord." So he said to them, "Unless I see in His hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into His side, I will by no means believe."
Joh 20:26 And after eight days His disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors having been closed, and stood in the midst, and said, "Peace to you!"
Joh 20:27 Then He said to Thomas, "Bring your finger here, and see My hands; and bring your hand here, and put it into My side. Be not unbelieving, but believing."
Joh 20:28 And Thomas answered and said to Him, "My Lord and my God!"
Joh 20:29 Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed."
Joh 20:30 And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book;
Joh 20:31 but these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in His name.
Joh 21:1 After these things Jesus showed Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and in this manner He showed Himself:
Joh 21:2 Simon Peter, Thomas called the Twin, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together.
Joh 21:3 Simon Peter said to them, "I am going fishing." They said to him, "We are coming with you also." They went out and immediately got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing.
Joh 21:4 But as daybreak had already come, Jesus stood upon the shore; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
Joh 21:5 Then Jesus said to them, "Children, have you any food?" They answered Him, "No."
Joh 21:6 And He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some." Therefore they cast, and they were not able to haul it in because of the multitude of fish.
Joh 21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, "It is the Lord!" Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment (for he had removed it), and he threw himself into the sea.
Joh 21:8 But the other disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits), dragging the net with fish.
Joh 21:9 Then as they got off onto the land, they saw a charcoal fire laid there, and fish placed on it, and bread.
Joh 21:10 Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish which you have just caught."
Joh 21:11 Simon Peter went up and hauled the net onto the land, full of large fish, one hundred and fifty-three; and although there were so many, the net was not torn.
Joh 21:12 Jesus said to them, "Come, eat breakfast." Yet none of the disciples dared ask Him, "Who are You?"—knowing that it was the Lord.
Joh 21:13 Jesus then came and took the bread and gave it to them, and likewise the fish.
Joh 21:14 This was now the third time Jesus was manifested to His disciples, having been raised from the dead.
Joh 21:15 So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me more than these?" He said to Him, "Yes, Lord; You know that I care for You." He said to him, "Feed My lambs."
Joh 21:16 He said to him again a second time, "Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me?" He said to Him, "Yes, Lord; You know that I care for You." He said to him, "Shepherd My sheep."
Joh 21:17 He said to him the third time, "Simon, son of Jonah, do you care for Me?" Peter was grieved because He said to him the third time, "Do you care for Me?" And he said to Him, "Lord, You know all things; You know that I care for You." Jesus said to him, "Feed My sheep.
Joh 21:18 Most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger, you used to dress yourself and used to walk where you wished; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and will carry you where you do not wish."
Joh 21:19 But this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had spoken this, He said to him, "Follow Me."
Joh 21:20 Then Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also had reclined on His chest at the supper, and said, "Lord, who is the one who betrays You?"
Joh 21:21 Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, "But Lord, what about this man?"
Joh 21:22 Jesus said to him, "If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? You follow Me."
Joh 21:23 Therefore this saying went out among the brothers that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, "If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you?"
Joh 21:24 This is the disciple who testifies of these things, and wrote these things; and we know that his testimony is true.
Joh 21:25 And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the world itself would have room for the books which would be written. Amen.
