Phm 1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow worker,
Phm 1:2 to Apphia the beloved, and to Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church at your house:
Phm 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Phm 1:4 I thank my God, always making mention of you in my prayers,
Phm 1:5 hearing of your love and faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints,
Phm 1:6 that the sharing of your faith may become effective in full knowledge of every good thing which is in us in Christ Jesus.
Phm 1:7 For we have much thanksgiving and encouragement over your love, because the affections of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
Phm 1:8 Therefore, having much boldness in Christ to command you what is fitting,
Phm 1:9 rather on account of love I appeal to you—being such a one as Paul, the elder, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ—
Phm 1:10 I appeal to you for my son Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment,
Phm 1:11 who formerly was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable both to you and to me,
Phm 1:12 whom I am sending back. You therefore receive him, that is, my very heart;
Phm 1:13 whom I wished to keep with myself, in order that on your behalf he might serve me in the bonds of the gospel.
Phm 1:14 But I wished to do nothing without your consent, in order that your good might not be by necessity, but rather voluntary.
Phm 1:15 For perhaps he was taken away for a time on account of this, in order that you might keep him eternally,
Phm 1:16 no longer as a slave but more than a slave—a beloved brother, especially to me but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Phm 1:17 If then you count me as a partner, receive him as you would me.
Phm 1:18 But if he has wronged you or owes anything, charge this to me.
Phm 1:19 I, Paul, am writing with my own hand. I will repay—not to mention that you owe me even your own self!
Phm 1:20 Yes, brother, may I have profit from you in the Lord; refresh my heart in the Lord.
Phm 1:21 Having been persuaded of your obedience, I am writing to you, knowing that you will do even beyond what I say.
Phm 1:22 But meanwhile, also prepare for me a guestroom, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
Phm 1:23 Epaphras, my fellow captive in Christ Jesus, greets you,
Phm 1:24 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
Phm 1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
