           PSALMS AND PROVERBS FROM THE GREEK SEPTUAGINT               
     
     
     PSALM 1
     
1 Blessed is the man who has not walked in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stood in the way of sinners, nor sat in the seat of evil men.  
2 But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in His law will he meditate day and night.  
3 And he will be like a tree planted by the brooks of waters, which will yield its fruit in its season, and its leaf will not fall off; and whatsoever he does will prosper. 
4 Not so for the ungodly—not so; but rather as the chaff which the wind scatters away from the face of the earth.  
5 Therefore the ungodly will not rise in the judgment, nor sinners in the counsel of the righteous. 
6 For the Lord knows the way of the righteous; but the way of the ungodly will perish.                 
     
     PSALM 2

1 Why did the nations rage, and the people imagine vain things?  
2 The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers gathered themselves together, against the Lord, and against His Christ; 
3 saying, “Let us break their chains, and cast off  their yoke from us.” 
4 He that dwells in the heavens will laugh them to scorn, and the Lord will mock them. 
5 Then He will speak to them in His anger, and trouble them in His fury. 
6 But I have been made King by Him on Zion His holy mountain, 
7 declaring the ordinance of the Lord: “The Lord has said to Me, ‘You are My Son, today I have begotten You.  
8 Ask of Me, and I will give You the nations for Your inheritance, and the very ends of the earth for Your possession. 
9 You will rule them with a rod of iron; You will dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel.’”  
10 Now therefore be wise, you kings: be instructed, you judges of the earth. 
11 Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice in Him with trembling. 
12 Accept correction, lest at any time the Lord be angry, and you should perish from the righteous way, whenever His wrath is suddenly kindled. Blessed are all those who put their trust in Him.                    
     
     PSALM 3

1 A Psalm of David, when he fled from the presence of his son Absalom.  
O Lord, why are those that afflict me multiplied? Many rise up against me. 
2 Many say of my soul, “There is no deliverance for him in his God.” Selah.  
3 But You, O Lord, are my helper; my glory, and the One that lifts up my head. 
4 I cried to the Lord with my voice, and He heard me out of His holy mountain. Selah. 
5 I laid down and slept; I awoke, for the Lord will help me. 
6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, who have set themselves against me all around. 
7 Arise, O Lord; deliver me, my God; for You have struck all who were my enemies without cause; You have broken the teeth of sinners. 
8 Deliverance is the Lord's, and Your blessing is upon Your people.                    
     
     
     
     PSALM  4
     
1 A Song of David among the Psalms.   
When I called upon Him, the God of my righteousness heard me; You have made room for me in distress; pity me, and hear my prayer. 
2 O you sons of men, how long will you be slow to hear? Why do you love vanity, and seek falsehood? Selah.  
3 But know that the Lord has done wondrous things for His holy one: the Lord will hear me when I cry to Him. 
4 Be angry, and do not sin; be vexed upon your beds for what you say in your hearts. Selah.  
5 Offer the sacrifice of righteousness, and trust in the Lord.  
6 Many say, ‘Who will show us good things?’ The light of Your countenance, O Lord, has been manifested towards us. 
7 You have put gladness into my heart: they have been satisfied with the fruit of their grain and wine and oil. 
8 I will both lie down in peace and sleep; for You alone, O Lord, have caused me to dwell securely.                    
     
     PSALM 5

1 A Psalm of David, concerning her that inherits.  
Give ear to my words, O Lord, attend to my cry.  
2 Attend to the voice of my supplication, my King, and my God; for to You, O Lord, will I pray. 
3 In the morning You shall hear my voice: in the morning will I wait upon You, and will look up. 
4 For You are not a God that desires iniquity; neither shall the worker of wickedness dwell with You. 
5 Neither shall transgressors continue in Your sight. O Lord, You hate all those that work iniquity. 
6 You will destroy all that speak falsehood: the Lord abhors the bloody and deceitful man. 
7 But I will enter into Your house in the multitude of Your mercy; in fear of You I will worship toward Your holy temple. 
8 Lead me, O Lord, in Your righteousness because of my enemies; make my way plain before Your face. 
9 For there is no truth in their mouth; their heart is vain; their throat is an open tomb; with their tongues they have used deceit.  
10 Judge them, O God; let them fail by their own counsels: cast them out according to the abundance of their ungodliness; for they have provoked You, O Lord.  
11 But let all that trust in You be glad in You: they will rejoice forever, and You will dwell among them; and all that love Your name will rejoice in You. 
12 For You, O Lord, will bless the righteous: You have surrounded us as with a shield of favor.                    
     
     
     
     PSALM 6

1 A Psalm of David among the Hymns.  
O Lord, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, neither chasten me in Your anger. 
2 Pity me, O Lord, for I am weak. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are vexed. 
3 My soul also is grievously vexed: but You, O Lord, how long? 
4 Return, O Lord, deliver my soul: save me for Your mercy's sake. 
5 For in death no man remembers You; and who will give You thanks in Hades? 
6 I am wearied with my groaning; I will wash my bed every night; I will water my couch with my tears.  
7 My eye is troubled because of my wrath; I am worn out because of all my enemies. 
8 Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity; for the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping. 
9 The Lord has heard my supplication; the Lord has accepted my prayer. 
10 Let all my enemies be put to shame and greatly troubled: let them be turned back and grievously put to shame speedily.                    
     
     PSALM 7

1 A Psalm of David, which he sang to the Lord because of the words of Cush the Benjamite.  
O Lord my God, in You have I trusted: save me from all those who persecute me, and deliver me,  
2 lest at any time the enemy seize my soul as a lion, while there is none to ransom, nor to save. 
3 O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is unrighteousness in my hands, 
4 if I have recompensed with evil those who recompensed me with good; may I then perish empty by means of my enemies. 
5 Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; and let him trample my life on the ground, and lay my glory in the dust. Selah. 
6 Arise, O Lord, in Your wrath; be exalted in the utmost boundaries of my enemies: awake, O Lord my God, according to the decree which You did command.  
7 And the congregation of the nations shall surround You: and for this cause will You return on high. 
8 The Lord shall judge the nations: judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, and according to my innocence that is in me. 
9 Oh let the wickedness of sinners come to an end; and then You shall direct the righteous, O God that searches the hearts and minds. 
10 My help is righteous, coming from God, who saves the upright in heart. 
11 God is a righteous Judge, and strong, and patient, not inflicting vengeance every day. 
12 If you will not repent, He will furbish His sword; He has bent His bow, and made it ready. 
13 And on it He has fitted the instruments of death; He has completed His arrows for the raging ones.  
14 Behold, the wicked has travailed with unrighteousness; he has conceived trouble, and has brought forth iniquity. 
15 He has opened a pit, and dug it up, and he shall fall into the ditch which he has made. 
16 His trouble shall return on his own head, and his unrighteousness shall come down on his own crown. 
17 I will give thanks to the Lord according to His righteousness; I will sing to the name of the Lord Most High.                    
     
     PSALM 8

1 A Psalm of David.  
O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Your name in all the earth! For Your magnificence is exalted above the heavens. 
2 Out of the mouth of babes and infants You have perfected praise, because of Your enemies; that You might put down the enemy and avenger.  
3 For I will regard the heavens, the work of Your fingers; the moon and stars, which You have established. 
4 What is man that You are mindful of him? Or the son of man that You visit him?  
5 You made him a little lower than the angels, You have crowned him with glory and honor. 
6 You have set him over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet: 
7 sheep and all oxen—even the beasts of the field;  
8 the birds of the sky, and the fish of the sea, the creatures passing through the paths of the sea. 
9 O Lord our Lord, how wonderful is Your name in all the earth!                 
     
     
     PSALM 9

1 A Psalm of David, concerning the secrets of the Son.  
I will give thanks to You, O Lord, with my whole heart; I will tell of all Your marvelous works. 
2 I will be glad and exalt in You: I will sing to Your name, O Most High. 
3 When my enemies are turned back, they shall be feeble and perish at Your presence. 
4 For You have maintained my cause and my right; You sat on the throne judging in righteousness. 
5 You have rebuked the nations, and the ungodly one has perished; You have blotted out their name forever, even forever and ever. 
6 The swords of the enemy have failed utterly; and you have destroyed cities: their memorial has been destroyed with a noise, 
7 but the Lord endures forever; He has prepared His throne for judgment. 
8 And He will judge the world in righteousness, He will judge the nations in uprightness. 
9 The Lord also has become a refuge for the poor, a refuge in times of trouble. 
10 And let those who know Your name hope in You—for You, O Lord, have not failed those who diligently seek You. 
11 Sing praises to the Lord, who dwells in Zion: declare His deeds among the nations. 
12 For He remembered them, in making inquisition for blood; He has not forgotten the supplication of the poor. 
13 Have mercy upon me, O Lord; look upon my affliction which I suffer from my enemies, You that lift me up from the gates of death: 
14 that I may declare all Your praises in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in Your salvation. 
15 The heathen are caught in the destruction which they planned: in the very snare which they hid is their foot taken. 
16 The Lord is known by the judgments He executes: the sinner is taken in the works of his hands. Selah. 
17 Let sinners be driven away into Hades, even all the nations that forget God. 
18 For the poor shall not be forgotten forever; the patience of the needy ones shall not perish forever. 
19 Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged before You. 
20 Appoint, O Lord, a lawgiver over them: let the heathen know that they are men. Selah.                    
     
     PSALM 10

11 Why do You stand afar off, O Lord? Why do You overlook us in times of need, in affliction?  
2 While the ungodly one acts proudly, the poor is hotly pursued; the wicked are taken in the crafty counsels which they imagine.  
3 Because the sinner praises himself for the desires of his heart; and the unjust one blesses himself. 
4 The sinner has provoked the Lord: according to the abundance of his pride he will not seek after Him; God is not before him.  
5 His ways are profane at all times; Your judgments are removed from before him: he will gain the mastery over all his enemies.  
6 For he has said in his heart, “I shall not be moved,” continuing without adversity from generation to generation. 
7 Whose mouth is full of cursing, and bitterness, and fraud: under his tongue are trouble and pain.  
8 He lies in wait with rich men in secret places, in order to slay the innocent: his eyes are set against the poor.  
9 He lies in wait in secret as a lion in his den: he lies in wait to ravish the poor, to ravish the poor when he draws him after him: he will bring him down in his snare. 
10 He will bow down and fall when he has mastered the poor. 
11 For he has said in his heart, “God has forgotten; He has turned away His face so as never to look.” 
12 Arise, O Lord God; let Your hand be lifted up: do not forget the poor. 
13 Why has the wicked provoked God? For he has said in his heart, “He will not require it.” 
14 You see it; for You observe trouble and wrath, to deliver them into Your hands; the poor has been left to You; You are a helper to the orphan. 
15 Break the arm of the sinner and wicked man: his sin shall be sought for, and shall not be found. 
16 The Lord shall reign forever, even forever and ever: you Gentiles shall perish out His land. 
17 The Lord has heard the desire of the poor: Your ear has inclined to the preparation of their heart; 
18 to plead for the orphan and the afflicted, that man may no longer boast upon the earth.  
     
     
     
     PSALM 11

1 A Psalm of David.  
In the Lord I have put my trust: how will you say to my soul, “Flee to the mountains as a sparrow?” 
2 For behold, the sinners have bent their bow, they have prepared their arrows for the quiver, to shoot secretly at the upright in heart.  
3 For they have pulled down what You framed, but what has the righteous done? 
4 The Lord is in His holy temple; the Lord’s throne is in heaven. His eyes look upon the poor, His eyelids test the sons of men. 
5 The Lord tests the righteous and the ungodly: and he that loves unrighteousness hates his own soul. 
6 Upon the sinners He will rain snares, fire and brimstone, and a stormy blast will be the portion of their cup. 
7 For the Lord is righteous, and loves righteousness; His face beholds uprightness.                    
     
                                                                                           PSALM 12   

1 A Psalm of David.  
Save me, O Lord; for the godly man has failed; for truth has diminished from the children of men.  
2 Everyone has spoken vanity to his neighbor; their lips are deceitful, they have spoken with a double heart. 
3 Let the Lord destroy all the deceitful lips, and the tongue that speaks great words; 
4 who have said, “We will magnify our tongue; our lips are our own: who is Lord over us?” 
5 “Because of the misery of the poor, and because of the sighing of the needy, now will I arise,” says the Lord, “I will set them in safety; I will speak to them openly.” 
6 The words of the Lord are pure words; like silver tried in the fire, proved in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.  
7 You, O Lord, shall keep us, and You shall preserve us from this generation, and forever. 
8 The ungodly walk around; according to Your greatness You have greatly exalted the sons of men.                    
     
                                                                                  
                                                                                 PSALM 13  

1 A Psalm of David.  
How long, O Lord, will You forget me? Forever? How long will You turn away Your face from me? 
2 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrows in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? 
3 Look on me, give ear to me, O Lord my God: lighten my eyes, lest I sleep in death; 
4 lest at any time my enemy say, “I have prevailed against him”: my persecutors will exalt if ever I should be moved. 
5 But I have hoped in Your mercy; my heart shall rejoice in Your salvation. 
6 I will sing to the Lord, who has dealt bountifully with me, and I will sing psalms to the name of the Lord Most High.                     
     
     PSALM 14

1 A Psalm of David.  
The fool has said in his heart, “There is no God.” They have corrupted themselves, and have become abominable in their devices; there is none that does good, there is not so much as one. 
2 The Lord looked down from heaven upon the sons of men, to see if there were any that understood, or sought after God. 
3 They have all gone out of the way, they have together become corrupt, there is none that does good, no not one. Their throat is an open tomb; with their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips: whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness; their feet are swift to shed blood: destruction and misery are in their ways; and the way of peace they have not known: there is no fear of God before their eyes. 
4 Will not all the workers of iniquity know, who eat up my people as they would eat bread? They have not called upon the Lord. 
5 There were they alarmed with fear, where there was no fear; for God is with the righteous generation. 
6 You have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the Lord is his hope. 
7 Who will bring the salvation of Israel out of Zion? When the Lord brings back the captivity of His people, let Jacob rejoice, and Israel be glad.                   
     
     PSALM 15

1 A Psalm of David.  
O Lord, who may abide in Your tabernacle? And who may dwell in Your holy mountain? 
2 He that walks blameless, and works righteousness, who speaks truth in his heart. 
3 Who has not spoken craftily with his tongue, neither has done evil to his neighbor, nor taken up a reproach against those who dwell nearest to him. 
4 In his sight an evil worker is set at nought, but he honors those who fear the Lord. He swears to his neighbor, and does not disappoint him. 
5 He has not lent his money at usury, and has not received bribes against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.                     
     
     PSALM 16
     
1 A Prayer of David.  
Keep me, O Lord, for I have hoped in You. 
2 I said to the Lord, “You are my Lord; my goodness is nothing apart from You.”  
3 On behalf of the saints that are in His land, He has magnified all His pleasure in them. 
4 Their weaknesses have been multiplied; afterward they hastened. I will by no means assemble their bloody meetings, neither will I make mention of their names with my lips. 
5 The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup: You are He that restores my inheritance to me. 
6 The lines have fallen to me in the best places; indeed, I have a most excellent heritage. 
7 I will bless the Lord who has instructed me; my heart also has chastened me in the night.  
8 I foresaw the Lord always before my face; for He is on my right hand, that I should not be moved. 
9 Therefore my heart rejoiced and my tongue exalted; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope: 
10 because You will not leave my soul in Hades, neither will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption.  
11 You have made known to me the ways of life; You will fill me with the joy of Your countenance: at Your right hand there are delights forever.                   
     
     PSALM 17

1 A Prayer of David.  
Hearken, O Lord of my righteousness, attend to my petition; give ear to my prayer not uttered with deceitful lips.  
2 Let my judgment come forth from Your presence; let my eyes behold righteousness. 
3 You have tested my heart; You have visited me in the night; You have tried me as with fire, and unrighteousness has not been found in me; I have purposed that my mouth shall not speak amiss. 
4 As for the works of men, by the words of Your lips I have guarded myself from hard ways.  
5 Direct my steps in Your paths, that my steps shall not slip. 
6 I have cried, for You heard me, O God: incline Your ear to me, and listen to my words. 
7 Show the marvels of Your mercies, You that save those who trust in You. 
8 Keep me as the apple of Your eye from those that resist Your right hand; You shall screen me by the covering of Your wings, 
9 from the face of the ungodly that have afflicted me; my enemies have surrounded my soul. 
10 They have enclosed themselves with their own fat; their mouths have spoken pride. 
11 They have now cast me out and surrounded me. They have set their eyes so as to bow them down to the ground. 
12 They laid wait for me as a lion ready for prey, and like a lion's whelp dwelling in secret places. 
13 Arise, O Lord, prevent them, and cast them down; deliver my soul from the ungodly; draw Your sword, 
14 because of the enemies of Your hand. O Lord, destroy them from the earth; scatter them in their life, though their belly has been filled with Your hidden treasures; they have been satisfied with uncleanness, and have left the remnant of their possessions to their babes.  
15 But I shall appear in righteousness before Your face: I shall be satisfied when Your glory appears.                  
     
     PSALM 18

1 A Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord; the words which he spoke to the Lord, even the words of this song, in the day in which the Lord delivered him out the hand of all his enemies, and out the hand of Saul. And he said:  
I will love You, O Lord, my strength. 
2 The Lord is my rock and my refuge, and my deliverer; my God is my helper, I will hope in Him; He is my defender, and the horn of my salvation, and my helper. 
3 I will call upon the Lord with praises, and I shall be saved from my enemies. 
4 The pangs of death have surrounded me, and the torrents of ungodliness have troubled me exceedingly. 
5 The pangs of hell surrounded me: the snares of death confronted me. 
6 When I was afflicted I called upon the Lord, and cried to my God: He heard my voice out of His holy temple, and my cry shall enter before Him, into His ears. 
7 Then the earth shook and quaked, and the foundations of the mountains were disturbed, and were shaken, because God was angry with them. 
8 There went up a smoke in His wrath, and fire burst into a flame at His presence; coals were kindled at it. 
9 And He bowed the heaven, and came down: and thick darkness was under His feet. 
10 And He rode upon a cherub and flew; He flew on the wings of the wind. 
11 And He made darkness His secret place; round about Him was His tabernacle, even dark water in the clouds of the air. 
12 At the brightness before Him the clouds passed, hail and coals of fire. 
13 The Lord also thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered His voice. 
14 And He sent forth His weapons, and scattered them; and multiplied lightnings, and routed them. 
15 And the springs of waters appeared, and the foundations of the world were exposed, at Your rebuke, O Lord, at the blasting of the breath of Your wrath. 
16 He sent from on high and took me, He drew me to Himself out of many waters. 
17 He will deliver me from my mighty enemies, and from those who hate me; for they are stronger than I. 
18 They confronted me in the day of my affliction: but the Lord was my support against them. 
19 And He brought me out into a wide place; He shall deliver me, because He has pleasure in me. 
20 And the Lord shall recompense me according to my righteousness; even according to the purity of my hands shall He recompense me. 
21 For I have kept the way of the Lord and have not wickedly departed from my God. 
22 For all His judgments were before me, and His statutes did not depart from me. 
23 And I shall be blameless before Him, and shall keep myself from my iniquity. 
24 And the Lord shall recompense me according to my righteousness, and according to the purity of my hands before His eyes. 
25 With the holy, You will be holy; and with the blameless, You will be blameless. 
26 And with the excellent, You will be excellent; and with the perverse, You will be shrewd. 
27 For You will save the lowly people, and will humble the eyes of the proud. 
28 For You, O Lord, will light my lamp: my God, You will lighten my darkness. 
29 For by You will I be delivered from a troop; and by my God I will pass over a wall. 
30 As for my God, His way is perfect: the words of the Lord are tried in the fire; He is a shield to all who trust in Him. 
31 For who is God but the Lord? And who is a God except our God? 
32 It is God that girds me with strength, and has made my way blameless; 
33 who strengthens my feet as hare's feet, and sets me upon high places. 
34 He instructs my hands for war; and You have made my arms as a bronze bow. 
35 And You have made me secure in my salvation; and Your right hand has helped me, and Your correction has upheld me to the end; yes, Your correction itself shall instruct me.  
36 You have enlarged my path under me, and my footsteps did not fail. 
37 I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them; and I will not turn back until they are consumed. 
38 I will dash them to pieces and they shall not be able to stand: they shall fall under my feet. 
39 For You have girded me with strength for war; You have beaten down under me all that rose up against me. 
40 And You has made my enemies turn their backs before me; and You have destroyed those who hated me. 
41 They cried, but there was no deliverer: even to the Lord, but He did not listen to them. 
42 I will grind them as the mud of the streets; and I will beat them as fine as dust before the wind. 
43 Deliver me from the strife of the people; You shall make me head of the Gentiles: a people whom I did not know have served me, 
44 at the hearing of the ear they obeyed me: the foreigners lied to me.  
45 The foreigners grew old, and fell away lame from their paths. 
46 The Lord lives; blessed be my God; and let the God of my salvation be exalted. 
47 It is God who avenges me, and has subdued the nations under me; 
48 my deliverer from angry enemies; You shall set me on high above them that rise up against me; You shall deliver me from the unrighteous man.  
49 Therefore shall I confess to You, O Lord, among the Gentiles, and sing unto Your name. 
50 God magnifies the deliverances of His king; and deals mercifully with David His anointed, and His descendants, forever.                 
     
     PSALM 19

1 A Psalm of David.  
The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament proclaims the work of His hands. 
2 Day to day utters speech, and night unto night proclaims knowledge.  
3 There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard.  
4 Their voice has gone out into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.  
5 In the sun He has set His tabernacle; and He came forth as a bridegroom out of His chamber; He will exalt as a strong man to run His course. 
6 His going forth is from the extremity of heaven, and His circuit to the other end of heaven; and no one shall be hidden from His heat.  
7 The law of the Lord is perfect, converting souls; the testimony of the Lord is faithful, instructing babes.  
8 The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is bright, enlightening the eyes. 
9 The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever and ever: the judgments of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether. 
10 To be desired more than gold, and much precious stone; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. 
11 For Your servant keeps to them; in the keeping of them there is great reward. 
12 Who will understand his transgressions? Purge me from my secret sins. 
13 And spare Your servant from the attack of strangers; if they do not gain the dominion over me, then shall I be blameless, and I shall be innocent of great sin. 
14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pleasing continually before You, O Lord my helper, and my redeemer.                                 
     
     PSALM 20

1 A Psalm of David.  
May the Lord hear you in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend you. 
2 May He send you help from the sanctuary, and aid you out of Zion. 
3 May He remember all your sacrifices, and accept your burnt offerings. Selah.  
4 May He grant you according to your heart, and fulfill all your desires. 
5 We will rejoice in Your salvation, and in the name of our God shall we be magnified: May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. 
6 Now I know that the Lord has saved His Anointed; He shall hear him from His holy heaven: the salvation of His right hand is mighty. 
7 Some glory in chariots, and some in horses: but we will glory in the name of the Lord our God.  
8 They are overthrown and fallen; but we are risen, and have been set upright. 
9 O Lord, save the king: and hear us when we call upon You.                 
     
     
     
     PSALM 21

1 A Psalm of David.  
O Lord, the king shall rejoice in Your strength; and in Your salvation he shall greatly exalt. 
2 You have granted him the desire of his soul, and have not withheld from him the request of his lips. Selah. 
3 For You have blessed him with blessings of goodness; You have set upon his head a crown of precious stone. 
4 He asked life of You, and You gave him length of days forever and ever. 
5 His glory is great in Your salvation; You will crown him with glory and majesty. 
6 For You will give him a blessing forever and ever; You will gladden him with joy with Your countenance. 
7 For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the mercy of the Highest he shall not be moved. 
8 Let Your hand be found by all Your enemies; let Your right hand find all that hate You. 
9 You shall make them as a fiery oven at the time of Your presence; the Lord shall trouble them in His anger, and fire shall devour them. 
10 You shall destroy their fruit from the earth, and their seed from among the sons of men. 
11 For they intended evil against You; they imagined a device which they shall by no means be able to perform. 
12 For You shall make them turn their back in Your latter end; You will prepare their face. 
13 Be exalted, O Lord, in Your strength; we will sing and praise Your mighty acts.                    
     
     
     
     
     PSALM 22

1 A Psalm of David.
O God, my God, attend to me; why have You forsaken me? The account of my transgressions is far from my salvation.  
2 O my God, I will cry to You by day, but You will not hear; and by night, and it shall not be reckoned to me as folly. 
3 But You, O praise of Israel, dwell in a sanctuary. 
4 Our fathers hoped in You; they hoped, and You delivered them. 
5 They cried to You, and were saved; they hoped in You, and were not ashamed. 
6 But I am a worm, and not a man; a reproach of men, and the scorn of the people. 
7 All that saw Me mocked Me; they spoke with their lips, they shook the head, saying, 
8 “He hoped in the Lord; let Him deliver Him, let Him save Him, because He takes pleasure in Him.” 
9 For You are He that drew Me out of the womb; My hope from My mother's breasts. 
10 I was cast on You from the womb; You are My God from My mother's belly. 
11 Be not far from Me, for trouble is near; for there is no helper. 
12 Many bulls have surrounded Me; strong bulls have beset Me round about.  
13 They have opened their mouth against Me, as a ravening and roaring lion. 
14 I am poured out like water, and all My bones are out of joint; My heart has become like melting wax. 
15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and My tongue is glued to My throat; and You have brought Me down to the dust of death. 
16 For many dogs have surrounded Me; the assembly of the evildoers has enclosed Me; they pierced My hands and My feet. 
17 They counted all My bones; and they observed and looked upon Me. 
18 They parted My garments among themselves, and cast lots for My clothing.  
19 But You, O Lord, be not far from Me; be ready for My aid. 
20 Deliver My soul from the sword; My only begotten soul from the power of the dog. 
21 Save Me from the lion's mouth; and regard My lowliness from the horns of the wild oxen.  
22 I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the congregation will I sing praise to You. 
23 You who fear the Lord, praise Him; all you descendants of Jacob, glorify Him; let all the house of Israel fear Him. 
24 For He has not despised nor been angry at the supplication of the poor; nor turned away His face from Me; but when I cried to Him, He heard Me. 
25 My praise is of You in the great congregation; I will pay My vows before them that fear Him. 
26 The poor shall eat and be satisfied; and they shall praise the Lord that seek Him; their heart shall live forever. 
27 All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before Him. 
28 For the kingdom is the Lord's; and He is the governor of the nations. 
29 All the fat ones of the earth have eaten and worshipped; all that go down to the earth shall fall down before Him; my soul also lives to him. 
30 And my descendants shall serve him; the generation that is coming shall be reported to the Lord. 
31 And they shall report His righteousness to the people that shall be born, whom the Lord has made.                 
     
     
     PSALM 23

1 A Psalm of David.  
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. 
2 He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside the still waters. 
3 He has restored my soul; He has guided me into the paths of righteousness, for His name's sake. 
4 Yea, though I walk in the midst of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil; for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me. 
5 You have prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You have anointed my head with oil; and Your cup cheers me like the best wine. 
6 Your mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.                     
     
     PSALM 24
     
1 A Psalm of David on the first day of the week.  
The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness; the world, and all that dwell in it. 
2 He has founded it upon the seas, and prepared it upon the rivers. 
3 Who shall go up to the mountain of the Lord, and who shall stand in His holy place? 
4 He that is innocent in his hands and pure in his heart; who has not lifted up his soul to vanity, nor sworn deceitfully to his neighbor.  
5 He shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and mercy from God his Savior. 
6 This is the generation of them that seek Him, that seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah. 
7 Lift up your gates, you princes, and be lifted up, you everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 
8 Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle! 
9 Lift up your gates, you princes; and be lifted up, you everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 
10 Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, He is this King of glory!   
     
     
     
     PSALM 25

1 A Psalm of David.  
To You, O Lord, have I lifted up my soul. 
2 O my God, I have trusted in You; let me not be confounded, neither let my enemies laugh me to scorn. 
3 For none of them that wait on You shall in any way be ashamed; let them be ashamed that transgress without cause. 
4 Show me Your ways, O Lord; and teach me Your paths. 
5 Lead me in Your truth, and teach me; for You are God my Savior; and I have waited on You all the day. 
6 Remember Your compassions, O Lord, and Your mercies, for they are from everlasting. 
7 Do not remember the sins of my youth, nor my sins of ignorance; remember me according to Your mercy, for Your goodness' sake, O Lord. 
8 Good and upright is the Lord; therefore will He instruct sinners in the way.  
9 The meek will He guide in judgment; the meek will He teach His ways. 
10 All the ways of the Lord are mercy and truth to them that seek His covenant and His testimonies. 
11 For Your name's sake, O Lord, be merciful to my sin; for it is great. 
12 Who is the man that fears the Lord? He shall instruct him in the way which he has chosen. 
13 His soul shall dwell in prosperity; and his descendants shall inherit the earth. 
14 The Lord is the strength of those who fear Him; and His covenant is to manifest truth to them.  
15 My eyes are continually toward the Lord; for He shall draw my feet out of the snare. 
16 Look upon me, and have mercy upon me; for I am an only child and poor. 
17 The afflictions of my heart have been multiplied; deliver me from my distresses. 
18 Look upon my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins. 
19 Look upon my enemies; for they have been multiplied, and they have hated me with an unjust hatred. 
20 Keep my soul, and deliver me; let me not be ashamed; for I have hoped in You. 
21 The harmless and upright joined themselves to me; for I waited for You, O Lord. 
22 Deliver Israel, O God, out of all his afflictions.   
     
     PSALM  26

1 A Psalm of David.  
Judge me, O Lord; for I have walked in my innocence; and hoping in the Lord I shall not be moved. 
2 Examine me, O Lord, and test me; purify as with fire my mind and my heart. 
3 For Your mercy is before my eyes; and I am well pleased with Your truth. 
4 I have not sat with the council of vanity, and shall by no means enter in with transgressors. 
5 I have hated the assembly of evildoers; and will not sit with the ungodly. 
6 I will wash my hands in innocence, and go about Your altar, O Lord;  
7 to hear the voice of praise, and to declare all Your wonderful works. 
8 O Lord, I have loved the beauty of Your house, and the place of the tabernacle of Your glory. 
9 Do not destroy my soul together with the ungodly, nor my life with bloody men; 
10 in whose hands are iniquities, and their right hand is filled with bribes. 
11 But I have walked in my innocence; redeem me, and have mercy upon me. 
12 My foot stands in an even place; in the congregations will I bless You, O Lord.    
     
     
     
     PSALM 27

1 A Psalm of David, before he was anointed. 
The Lord is my light and my Salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the defender of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? 
2 When evildoers drew near against me to eat up my flesh, my persecutors and my enemies, they fainted and fell. 
3 Though an army should set itself in array against me, my heart shall not be afraid; though war should rise up against me, in this am I confident. 
4 One thing have I asked of the Lord, this will I earnestly seek; that I should dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, that I should behold the fair beauty of the Lord, and survey His temple. 
5 For in the day of my afflictions He hid me in His tabernacle; He sheltered me in the secret place of His tabernacle; He set me high upon a rock. 
6 And now, behold, He has lifted up my head over my enemies; I went round and offered in His tabernacle the sacrifice of joy; I will sing, I will sing psalms unto the Lord.  
7 Hear, O Lord, my voice which I have uttered aloud; pity me, and hearken to me. 
8 My heart said to You, “I have diligently sought Your face”; Your face, O Lord, I will seek. 
9 Do not turn Your face away from me, do not turn away from Your servant in anger; be my helper, O God my Savior, do not forsake me; do not overlook me. 
10 For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord has taken me to Himself. 
11 Teach me, O Lord, in Your way, and guide me in a right path, because of my enemies. 
12 Do not deliver me over to the desire of them that afflict me; for unjust witnesses have risen up against me, and injustice has lied within herself. 
13 I believe that I shall see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.  
14 Wait on the Lord; be of good courage, and let your heart be strengthened; yes, I say, wait on the Lord!   
     
     PSALM 28
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
To You, O Lord, have I cried; my God, do not be silent toward me; lest You be silent toward me, and so I should be likened to them that go down to the pit. 
2 Hear the voice of my supplication, when I pray to You, when I lift up my hands toward Your holy temple. 
3 Do not draw away my soul with sinners, and do not destroy me with the workers of iniquity, who speak peace with their neighbors, but evil are in their hearts. 
4 Give them according to their works, and according to the wickedness of their endeavors; give them according to the works of their hands; render to them what they deserve. 
5 Because they have not attended to the works of the Lord, even to the works of His hands, You shall pull them down, and shall not build them up. 
6 Blessed be the Lord, for He has heard the voice of my petition. 
7 The Lord is my helper and my defender; my heart has hoped in Him, and I am helped; my flesh has revived, and willingly will I give praise to Him.  
8 The Lord is the strength of His people, and the saving defender of His anointed.  
9 Save Your people O Lord, and bless Your inheritance; take care of them, and lift them up forever.   
     
     PSALM 29

1 A Psalm of David, on the occasion of the solemn assembly of the Tabernacle.  
Bring to the Lord, you sons of God, bring to the Lord young rams; bring to the Lord glory and honor. 
2 Bring to the Lord the glory due to His name; worship the Lord in His holy court. 
3 The voice of the Lord is upon the waters; the God of glory has thundered; the Lord is upon many waters. 
4 The voice of the Lord is mighty; the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. 
5 The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; the Lord will break the cedars of Lebanon. 
6 And He will beat them small, even Lebanon itself, like a calf; and the beloved one is as a young unicorn. 
7 The voice of the Lord divides the flames of fire. 
8 The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness; the Lord will shake the wilderness of Kadesh. 
9 The voice of the Lord strengthens the deer, and will uncover the thickets; and in His temple everyone speaks of His glory.  
10 The Lord will dwell on the water flood; and the Lord will sit as King forever. 
11 The Lord will give strength to His people; the Lord will bless His people with peace.   
     
                                                                         PSALM 30  
     
1 A Psalm and Song at the dedication of the house of David.  
I will exalt You, O Lord; for You have lifted me up, and not caused my enemies to rejoice over me.  
2 O Lord my God, I cried to You, and You healed me. 
3 O Lord, You have brought up my soul from Hades, You have delivered me from among those who go down to the pit. 
4 Sing to the Lord, you His saints, and give thanks for the remembrance of His holiness. 
5 For anger is in His wrath, but life in His favor; weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. 
6 And I said in my prosperity, “I shall never be moved.” 
7 O Lord, in Your good pleasure You added strength to my beauty; but You turned away Your face, and I was troubled. 
8 To You, O Lord, will I cry; and to my God will I make supplication. 
9 What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to destruction? Shall the dust give praise to You? Or shall it declare Your truth? 
10 The Lord heard, and had compassion upon me; the Lord has become my helper. 
11 You have turned my mourning into joy; You have removed my sackcloth, and have clothed me with gladness; 
12 that my glory may sing praise to You, and I may not be pierced with sorrow. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to You forever.   
     
     
     
     PSALM  31

1 A Psalm of David, an utterance of extreme fear.  
O Lord, I have hoped in You; let me never be ashamed; deliver me in Your righteousness and rescue me.  
2 Incline Your ear to me; make haste to rescue me; be to me my protecting God, and a fortress of defense to save me. 
3 For You are my strength and my refuge; and You shall guide me for Your name's sake, and maintain me. 
4 You shall bring me out of the snare which they have hidden for me; for You, O Lord, are my defender. 
5 Into Your hands I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. 
6 You have hated those who idly persist in vanities; but I have hoped in the Lord. 
7 I will exalt and be glad in Your mercy; for You have looked upon my affliction; You have saved my soul from distresses. 
8 And You have not shut me up into the hands of the enemy; You have set my feet in a wide place. 
9 Pity me, O Lord, for I am afflicted; my eye is troubled with indignation, my soul and my belly. 
10 For my life is spent with grief, and my years with groanings; my strength has been weakened through poverty, and my bones are troubled. 
11 I became a reproach among all my enemies, but exceedingly so to my neighbors, and a fear to my acquaintances; they that saw me outside fled from me. 
12 I have been forgotten as a dead man out of mind; I have become as a broken vessel. 
13 For I heard the slander of many that dwelt round about; when they were gathered together against me, they took counsel to take my life. 
14 But I hoped in You, O Lord; I said, “You are my God.” 
15 My times are in Your hands; deliver me from the hand of my enemies, 
16 and from them that persecute me. Make Your face to shine upon Your servant; save me in Your mercy. 
17 O Lord, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon You; let the ungodly be ashamed, and brought down to Hades. 
18 Let the deceitful lips become dumb, which speak iniquity against the righteous with pride and scorn. 
19 How abundant is the multitude of Your goodness, O Lord, which You have laid up for those who fear You! You have wrought it out for those who hope on You, in the presence of the sons of men. 
20 You will hide them in the secret of Your presence from the plots of man; You will screen them in a tabernacle from the strife of tongues. 
21 Blessed be the Lord, for He has magnified His mercy in a strong city. 
22 But I said in my extreme fear, “I am cast out from before Your eyes”; therefore You listened, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication when I cried to You.  
23 Love the Lord, all you His saints; for the Lord seeks those that are truthful, and He recompenses those who deal very proudly. 
24 Be of good courage, and let your heart be strengthened, all you that hope in the Lord.    
     
     
     PSALM 32

1 A Psalm of instruction by David.  
Blessed are those whose transgressions are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.  
2 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin, and in whose mouth there is no guile. 
3 Because I kept silent, my bones waxed old, from my crying all the day long. 
4 For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me; I became thoroughly miserable while a thorn was fastened in me. Selah.  
5 I acknowledged my sin, and did not hide my iniquity; I said, “I will confess my iniquity to the Lord”; and You forgave the ungodliness of my heart. Selah. 
6 Therefore everyone who is godly shall pray to You in a fit time; only in the deluge of many waters they shall not come near to Him. 
7 You are my refuge from the affliction that surrounds me; my joy, to deliver me from those who have surrounded me. Selah. 
8 I will instruct you and guide you in the way you should go; I will fix My eyes upon you. 
9 Be not as the horse and mule, which have no understanding; but you must constrain their jaws with bit and bridle, lest they should come near to you.  
10 Many are the scourges of the sinner; but he who hopes in the Lord, mercy shall surround him. 
11 Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, you righteous; and shout for joy, all you that are upright in heart!   
     
                                                                   
                                                                                PSALM 33
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous; praise from the upright is beautiful. 
2 Praise the Lord on the harp; make melody to Him on a psaltery of ten strings.  
3 Sing to Him a new song; play skillfully with a loud noise. 
4 For the word of the Lord is right; and all His works are faithful.  
5 He loves mercy and judgment; the earth is full of the mercy of the Lord. 
6 By the word of the Lord the heavens were established; and all the host of them by the breath of His mouth. 
7 Who gathers the waters of the sea as in a bottle; who lays up the deeps in treasuries. 
8 Let all the earth fear the Lord; and let all that dwell in the world be moved because of Him. 
9 For He spoke, and they were made; He commanded, and they were created. 
10 The Lord frustrates the counsels of the nations; He brings to nought the reasonings of the people, and brings to nought the counsels of princes. 
11 But the counsel of the Lord endures forever, the thoughts of His heart from generation to generation. 
12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord; the people whom He has chosen for His own inheritance. 
13 The Lord looks out of heaven; He beholds all the sons of men. 
14 He looks down from His dwelling place on all the inhabitants of the earth; 
15 who fashioned their hearts alone; who understands all their works.  
16 A king is not saved by reason of a great army; and a giant shall not be delivered by the greatness of his strength. 
17 A horse is a vain hope for safety; neither shall he be delivered by the greatness of his power. 
18 Behold, the eyes of the Lord are on them that fear Him, those that hope in His mercy; 
19 to deliver their souls from death, and to keep them alive in famine. 
20 Our soul waits on the Lord; for He is our helper and defender. 
21 For our heart shall rejoice in Him, and we have hoped in His holy name. 
22 Let Your mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we have hoped in You.   
     
     PSALM 34
     
1 A Psalm of David, when he changed his countenance before Abimelech; and he let him go, and he departed.  
I will bless the Lord at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. 
2 My soul shall boast in the Lord; let the meek hear, and rejoice.  
3 Magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt His name together. 
4 I sought the Lord diligently, and He heard me, and delivered me from all my sojournings.  
5 Draw near to Him, and be enlightened; and your faces shall by no means be ashamed. 
6 The poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and delivered him out of all his afflictions. 
7 The angel of the Lord will encamp around those that fear Him, and will deliver them. 
8 Taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the man who trusts in Him. 
9 Fear the Lord, all you His saints; for there is no lack to those who fear Him. 
10 The rich have become poor and hungry; but those who seek the Lord diligently shall not lack any good thing. Selah. 
11 Come, you children, hear me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 
12 What man is there that desires life, and loves to see good days?  
13 Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking guile. 
14 Turn away from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it. 
15 The eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears are open to their prayer; 
16 but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to destroy their memorial from the earth. 
17 The righteous cried, and the Lord listened to them, and delivered them out of all their afflictions. 
18 The Lord is near to those who are of a contrite heart; and will save the lowly in spirit.  
19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous; but the Lord shall deliver them out of them all. 
20 He keeps all their bones; not one of them shall be broken. 
21 The death of sinners is evil; and those who hate righteousness will go wrong. 
22 The Lord will redeem the souls of His servants; and none of those who hope in Him shall go wrong.   
     
     PSALM 35

1 A Psalm of David.  
Judge, O Lord, those that injure me, fight against them that fight against me. 
2 Take hold of shield and buckler, and arise for my help. 
3 Bring forth a sword, and stop the way against those who persecute me; say to my soul, “I am your salvation.” 
4 Let those who seek my soul be ashamed and confounded; let those who devise evils against me be turned back and put to shame. 
5 Let them be like dust before the wind, and an angel of the Lord afflicting them. 
6 Let their way be dark and slippery, and an angel of the Lord persecuting them. 
7 For without cause they have hid for me their destructive snare; without a cause they have reproached my soul. 
8 Let a snare which they do not know come upon them; and the net which they hid take them; and let them fall into the very same snare. 
9 But my soul shall exalt in the Lord; it shall delight in His salvation. 
10 All my bones will say, “O Lord, who is like You? Delivering the poor out of the hand of them that are stronger than he, yea, the poor and needy one from those who spoil him.” 
11 Unjust witnesses arose, and asked me of things I did not know. 
12 They rewarded me evil for good, and bereavement to my soul. 
13 But I, when they troubled me, put on sackcloth, and humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer shall return to my own bosom. 
14 I behaved agreeably towards them as if it had been our neighbor or brother; I humbled myself as one mourning and sad of countenance. 
15 Yet they rejoiced against me, and plagues were plentifully brought against me, and I did not know it; they were scattered, but did not repent.  
16 They tempted me, they sneered at me most contemptuously, they gnashed their teeth at me. 
17 O Lord, when will You look upon me? Deliver my soul from their mischief, my only begotten soul from the lions. 
18 I will give thanks to You even in a great congregation; in an abundant people I will praise You. 
19 Let not those who are my enemies rejoice against me without a cause; who hate me for nothing, and wink with their eyes. 
20 For to me they spoke peaceably, but imagined deceits in their anger. 
21 And they opened wide their mouth upon me; they said “Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it.” 
22 You have seen it, O Lord; do not keep silence; O Lord, do not withdraw Yourself from me. 
23 Awake, O Lord, and attend to my judgment, even to my cause, my God and my Lord. 
24 Judge me, O Lord, according to Your righteousness, O Lord my God; and let them not rejoice against me. 
25 Let them not say in their hearts, “Aha, aha, it is pleasing to our soul”; neither let them say, “We have devoured him.” 
26 Let them be confounded and ashamed together that rejoice at my afflictions; let them be clothed with shame and confusion that speak great swelling words against me. 
27 Let those who rejoice in my righteousness exalt and be glad; and let them say continually, “The Lord be magnified, who desires the peace of His servant.” 
28 And my tongue shall meditate on Your righteousness, and on Your praise all the day.   
     
     PSALM 36
     
1 A Psalm, by David the servant of the Lord.  
The transgressor, that he may sin, says within himself, that he has no fear of God.  
2 For he has dealt craftily before him, to discover his iniquity and hate it.  
3 The words of his mouth are transgression and deceit; he is not inclined to understand how to do good. 
4 He devises iniquity on his bed; he gives himself to every evil way; and does not abhor evil. 
5 O Lord, Your mercy is in the heavens; and Your truth reaches to the clouds. 
6 Your righteousness is as the mountains of God, Your judgments are as a great deep; O Lord, You will preserve men and beasts.  
7 How have You multiplied Your mercy, O God! So the children of men shall trust in the shelter of Your wings. 
8 They shall be fully satisfied with the fatness of Your house; and You shall cause them to drink of the full stream of Your delights.  
9 For with You is the fountain of life; in Your light we shall see light. 
10 Extend Your mercy to those who know You; and Your righteousness to the upright in heart. 
11 Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of sinners move me. 
12 There the workers of iniquity have fallen; they are cast out, and shall not be able to stand.   
     
     PSALM 37

1 A Psalm of David.   
Do not fret because of evildoers, neither be envious of those who work iniquity. 
2 For they will soon be withered as the grass, and will soon fall away as the green herbs. 
3 Hope in the Lord, and do good; and dwell in the land, and you will be fed from the wealth of it. 
4 Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart. 
5 Disclose Your way to the Lord, and trust in Him; and He will bring it to pass. 
6 And He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your judgment as the noonday. 
7 Submit yourself to the Lord, and make supplication to Him; do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, at the man who does unlawful deeds. 
8 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; do not fret, so as not to do evil. 
9 For evildoers will be destroyed; but those who wait on the Lord, they will inherit the land. 
10 And yet a little while, and the sinner shall not be, and you shall seek for his place, and shall not find it. 
11 But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 
12 The sinner will watch for the righteous, and gnash his teeth at him. 
13 But the Lord will laugh at him; for He foresees that his day will come. 
14 Sinners have drawn their swords; they have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay the upright in heart. 
15 Let their sword enter into their own heart, and their bows be broken. 
16 A little is better to the righteous than the abundant wealth of sinners. 
17 For the arms of sinners will be broken; but the Lord supports the righteous. 
18 The Lord knows the ways of the upright; and their inheritance will be forever. 
19 They will not be ashamed in an evil time; and in days of famine they will be satisfied. 
20 For the sinners shall perish; and the enemies of the Lord at the moment of their being honored and exalted have utterly vanished like smoke. 
21 The sinner borrows, and will not pay again; but the righteous has compassion, and gives. 
22 For those who bless Him shall inherit the earth; and they who curse Him shall be utterly destroyed. 
23 The steps of a man are rightly ordered by the Lord; and He will take pleasure in his way. 
24 When he falls, he will not be ruined; for the Lord supports his hand. 
25 I was once young, indeed I am now old; yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his descendants seeking bread. 
26 He is merciful, and lends continually; and his descendants shall be blessed.  
27 Turn aside from evil, and do good; and dwell forever. 
28 For the Lord loves judgment, and will not forsake His saints; they will be preserved forever; the blameless will be avenged, but the descendants of the ungodly will be utterly destroyed.  
29 But the righteous shall inherit the earth, and dwell upon it forever. 
30 The mouth of the righteous will meditate wisdom, and his tongue will speak of judgment. 
31 The law of his God is in his heart; and his steps will not slide.  
32 The sinner watches the righteous, and seeks to slay him. 
33 But the Lord will not leave him in his hands, nor by any means condemn him when he is judged. 
34 Wait on the Lord and keep His way, and He shall exalt you to inherit the land; when the wicked are destroyed, you shall see it. 
35 I saw the ungodly very highly exalting himself, and lifting himself up like the cedars of Lebanon. 
36 Yet I passed by, and lo! He was not; and I sought him, but his place was not found. 
37 Maintain innocence, and behold uprightness; for there is a remnant to the peaceable man. 
38 But the transgressors shall be utterly destroyed together; the remnants of the ungodly shall be utterly destroyed. 
39 But the salvation of the righteous is of the Lord; and He is their defender in the time of affliction. 
40 And the Lord will help them, and deliver them; and He will rescue them from sinners, and save them, because they have hoped in Him.   
     
     PSALM 38
     
1 A Psalm of David for remembrance concerning the Sabbath day.  
O Lord, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, neither chasten me in Your anger. 
2 For Your weapons are fixed on me, and You have pressed Your hand heavily upon me. 
3 For there is no health in my flesh because of Your anger; there is no peace to my bones because of my sins. 
4 For my transgressions have gone over my head; they have pressed heavily upon me like a weighty burden. 
5 My wounds have become foul and corrupt because of my foolishness. 
6 I have been wretched and bowed down continually; I went with a mourning countenance all the day. 
7 For my soul is filled with mockings; and there is no health in my flesh. 
8 I have been afflicted and brought down exceedingly; I have roared for the groaning of my heart. 
9 But all my desire is before You; and my groaning is not hidden from You. 
10 My heart is troubled, my strength has failed me; and the light of my eyes is not with me. 
11 My friends and my neighbors drew near before me, and stood still; and my nearest of kin stood afar off. 
12 While they pressed hard upon me that sought my soul; and those who sought my hurt spoke vanities, and devised deceits all the day. 
13 But I, as a deaf man, did not hear; and was as a dumb man not opening his mouth. 
14 And I was as a man that does not hear, and who has no reproofs in his mouth. 
15 For I hoped in You, O Lord; You will hear, O Lord my God. 
16 For I said, “Lest my enemies rejoice against me”; for when my feet were moved, they spoke boastfully against me. 
17 For I am ready for plagues, and my grief is continually before me.  
18 For I will declare my iniquity, and be distressed for my sin. 
19 But my enemies live, and are mightier than I; and those who hate me unjustly are multiplied. 
20 Those who reward evil for good slandered me; because I followed after righteousness. 
21 Do not forsake me, O Lord my God; do not depart from me. 
22 Draw near to my help, O Lord of my salvation.   
     
     
     
     PSALM 39
     
1 A Song of David, to Jeduthun.  
I said, “I will take heed to my ways, that I do not sin with my tongue”; I set a guard on my mouth, while the sinner stood in my presence. 
2 I was dumb, and humbled myself, and kept silence from good words; and my grief was renewed. 
3 My heart grew hot within me, and a fire would kindle in my meditation; I spoke with my tongue, 
4 “O Lord, make me to know my end, and the number of my days, what it is; that I may know what I lack.
5 Behold, You have made my days old; and my existence is as nothing before You; indeed, every man living is altogether vanity. Selah.  
6 Surely man walks in a shadow; surely he is disquieted in vain; he lays up treasures, and does not know for whom he shall gather them.  
7 And now what is my expectation? Is it not the Lord? And my ground of hope is with You. Selah. 
8 Deliver me from all my transgressions; You have made me a reproach to the foolish. 
9 I was dumb, and did not open my mouth; for You are He that made me.  
10 Remove Your scourge from me; I have fainted by reason of the strength of Your hand. 
11 You chasten man with rebukes for iniquity, and You make his life to consume away like a spider's web; surely every man is disquieted in vain. Selah. 
12 O Lord, listen to my prayer and my supplication; attend to my tears; be not silent, for I am a sojourner in the land, and a stranger, as all my fathers were. 
13 Spare me, that I may be refreshed, before I depart, and be no more.”   
     
                                                                             
    
    
                                                                                PSALM 40
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
I waited patiently for the Lord; and He attended to me, and heard my supplication. 
2 And He brought me up out of a pit of misery, and from the miry clay; and He set my feet upon a rock, and established my steps. 
3 And He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn to our God; many will see it and fear, and will hope in the Lord. 
4 Blessed is the man whose hope is in the name of the Lord, and who has not regarded vanities, nor turned aside to lies. 
5 O Lord my God, You have multiplied Your wonderful works, and in Your thoughts there is none who will be likened to You; I declared and spoke of them; they exceeded in number. 
6 Sacrifice and offering You did not desire; but a body You have prepared for me; burnt offering and sacrifice for sin You did not require.  
7 Then I said, “Behold, I have come; in the volume of the book it is written of me,  
8 I desired to do Your will, O my God, and Your law in the midst of my heart.” 
9 I have preached righteousness in the great congregation; lo! I will not refrain my lips; O Lord, You know my righteousness. 
10 I have not hid Your truth within my heart, and I have declared Your salvation; I have not hid Your mercy and Your truth from the great congregation. 
11 But You, O Lord, do not remove Your compassion far from me; Your mercy and Your truth have helped me continually. 
12 For innumerable evils have encompassed me; my transgressions have taken hold of me, and I could not see; they are multiplied more than the hairs of my head; and my heart has failed me. 
13 Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, draw near to help me. 
14 Let those that seek my soul, to destroy it, be ashamed and confounded together; let those that wish me evil be turned backward and put to shame. 
15 Let those that say to me, “Aha, aha,” quickly receive shame for their reward. 
16 Let all those that seek You, O Lord, exalt and rejoice in You; and let them that love Your salvation say continually, “The Lord be magnified!” 
17 But I am poor and needy; the Lord will take care of me; You are my helper, and my defender, O my God; do not delay.  
     
     PSALM 41
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
Blessed is the man who thinks on the poor and needy; the Lord shall deliver him in an evil day. 
2 May the Lord preserve him and keep him alive, and bless him on the earth, and not deliver him into the hands of his enemy. 
3 May the Lord help him upon the bed of his pain; You will sustain him on his sickbed. 
4 I said, “O Lord, have mercy upon me; heal my soul; for I have sinned against You.” 
5 My enemies have spoken evil against me, saying, “When shall he die, and his name perish?” 
6 And if he came to see me, his heart spoke vainly; he gathered iniquity to himself; he went forth and spoke in like manner. 
7 All my enemies whispered against me; against me they devised my hurt. 
8 They denounced a wicked word against me, saying, “Now that he lies, shall he not rise up again?” 
9 For even the man of my peace, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, lifted up his heel against me.  
10 But You, O Lord, have compassion upon me, and raise me up, and I will repay them. 
11 By this I know that You have delighted in me, because my enemy will not rejoice over me. 
12 But You helped me because of my innocence, and have established me before You forever. 
13 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen.   
     
                                                                             PSALM 42  


1 A Psalm of instruction, for the sons of Korah. 
As the deer pants for the fountains of water, so my soul earnestly longs for You, O God. 
2 My soul thirsts for the living God; when shall I come and appear before God? 
3 My tears have been my food day and night, while they said to me daily, “Where is your God?” 
4 I remembered these things, and poured out my soul in me, for I will go to the place of Your wondrous tabernacle, even to the house of God, with a voice of exaltation and thanksgiving and of the sound of those who keep the feast.  
5 Why are you downcast, O my soul? And why do you trouble me? Hope in God; for I will give thanks to Him; He is the salvation of my countenance. 
6 O my God, my soul has been troubled within me; therefore will I remember You from the land of the Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the little hill. 
7 Deep calls to deep at the sound of Your waterfalls; all Your billows and Your waves have gone over me. 
8 By day the Lord will command His mercy, and manifest it by night; with me is prayer to the God of my life.  
9 I will say to God, “You are my helper; why have You forgotten me? Why do I mourn, while the enemy oppresses me?” 
10 While my bones were breaking, those who afflicted me reproached me; while they said to me daily, “Where is your God?” 
11 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why do you trouble me? Hope in God; for I will give thanks to Him; He is the health of my countenance, and my God.   
     
     PSALM 43
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
Judge me, O God, and plead my cause, against an ungodly nation; deliver me from the unjust and crafty;  
2 for You are my strength; why have You cast me off? And why do I go mourning, while the enemy oppresses me? 
3 Send forth Your light and Your truth; they have led me, and brought me to Your holy mountain, and to Your tabernacle. 
4 And I will go in to the altar of God, to God who gladdens my youth; I will give thanks to You on the harp, O God, my God. 
5 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why do you trouble me? Hope in God; for I will give thanks to Him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.   
     
     PSALM 44

1 A Psalm for instruction, for the sons of Korah.  
O God, we have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us, the deeds which You did in their days, in the days of old.  
2 Your hand utterly destroyed the heathen, and You planted them; You afflicted the nations, and cast them out. 
3 For they did not inherit the land by their own sword, and their own arm did not deliver them; but Your right hand, and Your arm, and the light of Your countenance, because You were well pleased with them. 
4 You are indeed my King and my God, who commanded deliverance for Jacob. 
5 In You will we push down our enemies, and in Your name will we bring to nought those who rise up against us. 
6 For I will not trust in my bow, and my sword shall not save me. 
7 For You have saved us from those who afflicted us, and have put to shame those who hated us. 
8 In God will we make our boast all the day, and to Your name will we give thanks forever. Selah.  
9 But now You have cast off, and put us to shame; and You will not go forth with our armies. 
10 You have turned us back before our enemies; and those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. 
11 You made us as sheep intended for food; and You scattered us among the nations. 
12 You have sold Your people without price, and there was no profit by their exchange. 
13 You have made us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and derision to those who are around us. 
14 You have made us a proverb among the Gentiles, a shaking of the head among the nations. 
15 All day long my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face has covered me, 
16 because of the voice of the slanderer and reviler; because of the enemy and avenger. 
17 All these things have come upon us; but we have not forgotten You, neither have we dealt unrighteously in Your covenant. 
18 And our heart has not gone back; but You have turned aside our paths from Your way. 
19 For You have laid us low in a place of affliction, and the shadow of death has covered us. 
20 If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have spread out our hands to a strange god; shall not God search these things out? 
21 for He knows the secrets of the heart. 
22 For Your sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for slaughter.  
23 Awake, why do You sleep, O Lord? Arise, and do not cast us off forever. 
24 Why do You turn Your face away, and forget our poverty and our affliction? 
25 For our soul has been brought down to the dust; our belly has cleaved to the earth. 
26 Arise, O Lord, and help us; redeem us for Your name's sake.   
     
     
     
     
     PSALM 45

1 A Psalm by the sons of Korah; for instruction, A song concerning the beloved.  
My heart has uttered a good matter; I declare my works to the king; my tongue is the pen of a quick writer.  
2 You are more beautiful than the sons of men; grace has been shed forth on Your lips; therefore God has blessed You forever. 
3 Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O Mighty One, in Your comeliness, and in Your beauty; 
4 and bend Your bow, and prosper, and reign, because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and Your right hand shall guide You wonderfully. 
5 Your weapons are sharpened, O Mighty One, (the nations shall fall under You) they are in the heart of the king's enemies. 
6 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; the scepter of Your kingdom is the scepter of righteousness.  
7 You have loved righteousness, and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness beyond Your companions. 
8 Myrrh, aloes, and cassia emanate from Your garments, and out of the ivory palaces, 
9 with which kings' daughters have gladdened You for Your honor; the queen stood by on Your right hand, clothed in vesture wrought with gold, and arrayed in many colors. 
10 Hear, O daughter, and see, and incline your ear; forget also your people, and your father's house. 
11 Because the King has desired your beauty; for He is your Lord. 
12 And the daughter of Tyre shall adorn Him with gifts; the rich of the people of the land shall supplicate your favor.  
13 All her glory is that of the daughter of the king of Heshbon, robed in golden fringed garments,  
14 in embroidered clothing; virgins shall be brought to the king after her; her fellows shall be brought to You. 
15 They shall be brought with gladness and exaltation; they shall be led into the king's temple. 
16 Instead of Your fathers children are born to You; You shall make them princes over all the earth. 
17 They shall make mention of Your name from generation to generation; therefore shall the nations give thanks to You forever, even forever and ever.    
     
     PSALM 46

1 For the sons of Korah; A Psalm, concerning secret things.  
God is our refuge and strength, a help in the afflictions that have come heavily upon us. 
2 Therefore will we not fear when the earth is troubled, and the mountains are removed into the depths of the seas. 
3 Their waters have roared and been troubled, the mountains have been troubled by His might. Selah. 
4 There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God; the Most High has sanctified His tabernacle. 
5 God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God shall help her with His countenance.  
6 The nations were troubled, the kingdoms tottered; He uttered His voice, the earth shook. 
7 The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our helper. Selah. 
8 Come and behold the works of the Lord, what wonders He has achieved on the earth. 
9 Putting an end to wars as to the ends of the earth; He will crush the bow, and break in pieces the weapon, and burn the bucklers with fire. 
10 Be still and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. 
11 The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our helper.   
     
     PSALM 47

1 A Psalm for the sons of Korah. 
Clap your hands, all you nations; shout to God with a voice of exaltation. 
2 For the Lord Most High is awesome; He is a great King over all the earth. 
3 He has subdued the peoples under us, and the nations under our feet. 
4 He has chosen out His inheritance for us, the beauty of Jacob which He loved. Selah. 
5 God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with a sound of a trumpet. 
6 Sing praises to our God, sing praises; sing praises to our King, sing praises. 
7 For God is King of all the earth; sing praises with understanding. 
8 God reigns over the nations; God sits upon the throne of His holiness. 
9 The rulers of the people have assembled with the God of Abraham; for God's mighty ones of the earth have been greatly exalted.   
     
     PSALM 48

1 A Psalm of praise for the sons of Korah on the second day of the week.  
Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in His holy mountain.  
2 The city of the great King is well planted on the mountains of Zion, with the joy of the whole earth, on the sides of the north. 
3 God is known in her palaces, when He undertakes to help her. 
4 For behold, the kings of the earth were assembled, they came together. 
5 They saw, and so they wondered; they were troubled, they were moved. 
6 Trembling took hold of them; there were the pangs as of a woman in travail. 
7 You will break the ships of Tarshish with a vehement wind. 
8 As we have heard, so have we also seen, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God; God has founded it forever. Selah. 
9 We have thought of Your mercy, O God, in the midst of Your people. 
10 According to Your name, O God, so is also Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness. 
11 Let Mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah rejoice, because of Your judgments, O Lord. 
12 Go round about Zion, and encompass her; count her towers. 
13 Mark well her strength, and observe her palaces; that you may tell the next generation. 
14 For this is our God forever and ever; He will be our guide forevermore.   
     
     
     
     
     PSALM 49

1 A Psalm for the sons of Korah.  
Hear these words, all you nations, give ear, all you that dwell upon the earth; 
2 both the sons of mean men, and sons of great men; the rich and poor man together.  
3 My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall bring forth understanding. 
4 I will incline my ear to a parable; I will open my riddle on the harp.  
5 Why should I fear in the evil day? The iniquity of my heel shall surround me.  
6 Those who trust in their strength, and boast themselves in the multitude of their wealth—  
7 a brother does not redeem, shall a man redeem? He shall not give to God a ransom for himself, 
8 or the price for the redemption of his soul, though he labor forever, 
9 and live to the end, so that he should not see corruption. 
10 When he shall see wise men dying, the fool and the senseless one will perish together; and they will leave their wealth to strangers. 
11 And their tombs are their houses forever, even their tabernacles to all generations; they have called their lands after their own names. 
12 And man being in honor, does not understand; he is compared to the senseless cattle, and is likened unto them. 
13 This their way is an offense to them; yet afterwards men will commend their sayings. Selah. 
14 They have laid them as sheep in Hades; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning, and their help shall fail in Hades from their glory. 
15 But God shall deliver my soul from the power of Hades, when He shall receive me. Selah. 
16 Do not fear when a man is enriched, and when the glory of his house is increased. 
17 For he shall take nothing when he dies; neither shall his glory descend with him. 
18 For his soul shall be blessed in his life; he shall give thanks to you when you do well to him. 
19 Yet he shall go in to the generation of his fathers; he shall never see light.  
20 Man that is in honor, does not understand; he is compared to the senseless cattle, and is likened unto them.   
     
     PSALM 50
     
1 A Psalm of Asaph. 
The God of gods, the Lord, has spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to its going down.  
2 Out of Zion comes the excellence of His beauty. 
3 God, our God, shall come manifestly, and shall not keep silent; a fire shall be kindled before Him, and round about Him there shall be a very great tempest. 
4 He shall summon the heaven above, and the earth, that He may judge His people.  
5 Assemble His saints to Him, those that have engaged in a covenant with Him upon sacrifices. 
6 And the heavens shall declare His righteousness; for God is Judge. Selah. 
7 “Hear, My people, and I will speak to you, O Israel; and I will testify to you; I am God, your God. 
8 I will not reprove you on account of your sacrifices; for your burnt offerings are before Me continually. 
9 I will take no bulls out of your house, nor male goats out of your flocks. 
10 For all the wild beasts of the thicket are Mine, the cattle on the mountains, and oxen. 
11 I know all the birds of the sky; and the beauty of the field is Mine. 
12 If I should be hungry, I will not tell you; for the world is Mine, and all its fullness. 
13 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? 
14 Offer to God the sacrifice of praise; and pay your vows to the Most High. 
15 And call upon Me in the day of affliction; and I shall deliver you, and you shall glorify Me.” Selah. 
16 But to the sinner God has said, “Why do you declare My statutes, and take up My covenant in your mouth? 
17 Seeing you have hated instruction, and have cast My words behind you. 
18 If you saw a thief, you ran along with him, and have cast in your lot with adulterers.  
19 Your mouth has multiplied wickedness, and your tongue has framed deceit.  
20 You sat and spoke against your brother, and scandalized your mother's son. 
21 These things you did, and I kept silent; you thought wickedly that I should be like you, but I will reprove you, and set your offenses before you. 
22 Now consider these things, all you that forget God, lest I tear you, and there be none to deliver. 
23 The sacrifice of praise will glorify Me; and that is the way in which I will show to him the salvation of God.”   
     
     PSALM 51
     
1 A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came to him, when he had gone in to Bathsheba.  
Have mercy upon me O God, according to Your great mercy; and according to the multitude of Your compassions, blot out my transgression. 
2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. 
3 For I am conscious of my iniquity; and my sin is continually before me. 
4 Against You alone have I sinned, and done evil before You; that You might be justified in Your words, and might overcome when You are judged. 
5 For behold, I was conceived in iniquities, and in sins did my mother conceive me. 
6 For behold, You love truth; You have manifested to me the secret and hidden things of Your wisdom. 
7 You will sprinkle me with hyssop, and I will be purified; You will wash me, and I will be made whiter than snow. 
8 You will cause me to hear gladness and joy; my afflicted bones shall rejoice. 
9 Turn away Your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities. 
10 Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a steadfast spirit within me. 
11 Do not cast me away from Your presence; and do not remove Your Holy Spirit from me. 
12 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation; establish me with Your guiding Spirit.  
13 Then will I teach transgressors Your ways; and ungodly men shall turn to You. 
14 Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation; and my tongue shall joyfully declare Your righteousness. 
15 O Lord, You shall open my lips; and my mouth shall declare Your praise. 
16 For if You desired sacrifice, I would have given it; You will not take pleasure in burnt offerings. 
17 Sacrifice to God is a broken spirit; a broken and humbled heart God will not despise. 
18 Do good, O Lord, to Zion in Your good pleasure; and let the walls of Jerusalem be built. 
19 Then will You be pleased with a sacrifice of righteousness, offering, and whole burnt sacrifices; then will they offer calves upon Your altar.    
     
     
     PSALM 52

1 A Psalm of instruction by David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, and said to him, “David has gone to the house of Abimelech.”  
Why do you, O mighty man, boast of iniquity in your mischief? 
2 All the day your tongue has devised unrighteousness; like a sharpened razor you have worked deceit. 
3 You have loved wickedness more than goodness; unrighteousness better than to speak righteousness. Selah. 
4 You have loved all words of destruction, and a deceitful tongue. 
5 Therefore may God destroy you forever, may He pluck you up and utterly remove you from your dwelling, and your root from the land of the living. Selah. 
6 And the righteous shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, and say, 
7 “Behold, the man who did not make God his help; but trusted in the abundance of his wealth, and strengthened himself in his vanity.” 
8 But I am as a fruitful olive in the house of God; I have trusted in the mercy of God forever, even forevermore. 
9 I will give thanks to You forever, for You have done it; and I will wait on Your name; for it is good before the saints.  
     
     
     PSALM 53
     
1 A Psalm of David upon Mahalath, of instruction.  
The fool has said in his heart, “There is no God.” They have corrupted themselves, and have become abominable in iniquities; there is none that does good. 
2 God looked down from heaven upon the sons of men, to see if there were any that understood, or sought after God. 
3 They have all gone out of the way, they have together become unprofitable; there is none that does good, there is not even one.  
4 Will none of the workers of iniquity know, who devour my people as they would eat bread? They have not called upon God. There were they greatly afraid, where there was no fear; 
5 for God has scattered the bones of the men-pleasers; they were ashamed, for God has despised them. 
6 Who will bring the salvation of Israel out of Zion? When the Lord turns the captivity of His people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.   
     
     
     
     
     PSALM 54

1 A Psalm among Hymns of instruction by David, when the Ziphites came and said to Saul, “Is not David hiding with us?”  
Save me, O God, by Your name, and judge me by Your might. 
2 O God, hear my prayer; hearken to the words of my mouth. 
3 For strangers have risen up against me, and mighty men have sought my life; they have not set God before them. Selah. 
4 Behold, God assists me; and the Lord is the helper of my soul. 
5 He shall return evil to my enemies; utterly destroy them in Your truth. 
6 I will willingly sacrifice to You; I will give thanks to Your name, O Lord; for it is good. 
7 For You have delivered me out of all my afflictions, and my eye has seen its desire upon my enemies.   
     
     PSALM 55

1 A Psalm among Hymns of instruction, by David.  
Listen, O God, to my prayer; and do not disregard my supplication. 
2 Attend to me, and give heed to me; I was grieved in my meditation, and troubled; 
3 because of the voice of the enemy, and because of the oppression of the sinner; for they brought iniquity against me, and were wrathfully angry with me. 
4 My heart was troubled within me; and the fear of death fell upon me. 
5 Fear and trembling came upon me, and darkness covered me. 
6 And I said, “O, that I had wings as those of a dove! Then would I fly away, and be at rest.” 
7 Lo! I have fled afar off, and lodged in the wilderness. Selah. 
8 I waited for Him that would deliver me from my distressed spirit, and from the tempest. 
9 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues, for I have seen iniquity and gainsaying in the city. 
10 Day and night he shall go round about it upon its walls; iniquity and sorrow and unrighteousness are in the midst of it;  
11 and usury and craft have not failed from its streets. 
12 For if an enemy had reproached me, I would have endured it; and if one who hated me had exalted himself against me, I would have hid myself from him. 
13 But you, O like-minded man, my guide, and my acquaintance, 
14 who in companionship with me sweetened our food; we walked in the house of God together. 
15 Let death come upon them, and let them go down alive into Hades, for iniquity is in their dwellings, in the midst of them. 
16 I cried to God, and the Lord hearkened to me. 
17 Evening and morning and at noon I will declare and make known my needs; and He will hear my voice. 
18 He will deliver my soul in peace from those who draw near to me; for they were with me in many cases. 
19 God will hear, and bring them low, even He that has existed from eternity. Selah. For they suffer no recourse, and therefore they have not feared God.  
20 He has reached forth his hand for retribution; they have profaned His covenant. 
21 They were scattered at the anger of His countenance, and his heart drew near to them. His words were smoother than oil, yet they are darts.  
22 Cast your cares upon the Lord, and He shall sustain you; He shall never permit the righteous to be moved.  
23 But You, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction; bloody and crafty men shall not live out half their days; but I will hope in You, O Lord.   
     
     
     
     PSALM 56

1 A Psalm, concerning the people that were removed from the sanctuary, by David for a memorial, when the Philistines caught him in Gath.  
Have mercy upon me, O God; for man has trodden me down; all the day long his warring has afflicted me.  
2 My enemies have trodden me down all the day from the dawning of the day; for there are many warring against me. 
3 They shall be afraid, but I will trust in You. 
4 In God (I will praise His word); all the day long have I hoped in God; I will not fear; what shall man do to me? 
5 All the day long they have abominated my words; all their devices are against me for evil. 
6 They will dwell near and hide themselves; they will watch my steps, accordingly as I have waited patiently in my soul. 
7 You will by no means save them; You will bring down the people in wrath. 
8 O God, I have declared my life to You; You have set my tears before You, even according to Your promise. 
9 My enemies shall be turned back, in the day that I shall call upon You; behold, I know that You are my God. 
10 In God, (I will praise His word); in the Lord (I will praise His word). 
11 I have hoped in God; I will not be afraid; what shall man do to me? 
12 The vows of Your praise, O God, which I will pay, are upon me. 
13 For You have delivered my soul from death, and my feet from sliding, that I should be well-pleasing before God in the land of the living.   
     
     PSALM 57

1 A Psalm, by David, for a memorial, when he fled from the presence of Saul, to the cave.  
Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me; for my soul has trusted in You; and in the shadow of Your wings will I hope, until the iniquity has passed away. 
2 I will cry to God Most High; the God who has benefited me. Selah. 
3 He sent from heaven and saved me; He has reproached those who trampled on me; God has sent forth His mercy and His truth; 
4 and He has delivered my soul from the midst of the lion’s whelps; I lay down to sleep, though troubled. As for the sons of men, their teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword. 
5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; and Your glory above all the earth. 
6 They have prepared snares for my feet, and have bowed down my soul; they have dug a pit before my face, and fallen into it themselves. Selah. 
7 My heart, O God, is ready, my heart is ready; I will sing; yes, I will sing psalms. 
8 Awake, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp; I will awake early. 
9 O Lord, I will give thanks to You among the nations; I will sing to You among the Gentiles. 
10 For Your mercy has been magnified, even to the heavens, and Your truth to the clouds. 
11 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; and Your glory above all the earth.   
     
     PSALM 58

1 A Psalm, by David, for a memorial.  
If you do indeed speak righteousness, then do you judge rightly, you sons of men? 
2 For you work iniquities in your hearts in the earth; your hands plot unrighteousness. 
3 Sinners have gone astray from the womb; they go astray from the belly; they speak lies. 
4 Their venom is like that of a serpent; as that of a deaf asp, and that stops her ears; 
5 which will not hear the voice of charmers, nor heed the charm prepared skillfully by the wise.  
6 God has crushed their teeth in their mouth; God has broken the teeth of the lions. 
7 They will utterly pass away like water running; he will bend his bow till they have failed. 
8 They will be destroyed like melted wax; the fire has fallen, and they have not seen the sun. 
9 Before your pots you can feel the white thorn, He will swallow you up as living, as in His wrath. 
10 The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance of the ungodly; he will wash his hands in the blood of the sinner. 
11 And a man will say, “Truly there is a reward for the righteous; truly there is a God who judges those in the earth.”                   
     
     PSALM 59

1 A Psalm, by David for a memorial, when Saul sent, and watched his house to kill him.  
Deliver me from my enemies, O God; and ransom me from those that rise up against me. 
2 Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. 
3 For behold, they have hunted after my soul; violent men have set upon me; neither is it my iniquity, nor my sin, O Lord. 
4 Without iniquity I ran and directed my course aright; awake to help me, and behold. 
5 And You, Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, draw near to visit all the heathen; do not pity any that work iniquity. Selah. 
6 They shall return at evening, and hunger like a dog, and go round about the city. 
7 Behold, they shall utter a voice with their mouth, and a sword is in their lips; for who, they say, has heard? 
8 But You, O Lord, shall laugh them to scorn; You will utterly set at nought all the heathen. 
9 I will keep my strength, looking to You; for You, O God, are my helper. 
10 As for my God, His mercy shall go before me; my God will show me vengeance on my enemies. 
11 Do not slay them, lest they forget Your law; scatter them by Your power; and bring them down, O Lord, my defender.  
12 For the sin of their mouth, and the word of their lips, let them be taken in their pride. 
13 And for their cursing and falsehood shall utter destruction be denounced; they shall fall by the wrath of utter destruction, and shall not be; so shall they know that the God of Jacob is Lord to the ends of the earth. Selah. 
14 They will return at evening, and be hungry as a dog, and go round about the city. 
15 They will be scattered here and there for food; and if they are not satisfied, they will  murmur. 
16 But I will sing to Your strength, and in the morning will I rejoice in Your mercy; for You have been my supporter, and my refuge in the day of my affliction. 
17 You are my helper; to You, my God, will I sing; You are my supporter, O my God, and my mercy.                   
                                                                          
                                                                                    PSALM 60
     
1 A Psalm, for those that shall yet be changed; for an inscription by David for instruction, when he had burned Mesopotamia of Syria, and Syria of Zobah; and Joab had returned and struck twelve thousand in the Valley of Salt.  
O God, You have rejected and destroyed us; You have been angry, yet You have pitied us. 
2 You have shaken the earth, and troubled it; heal its breaches, for it has been shaken. 
3 You have shown Your people hard things; You have made us drink the wine of astonishment. 
4 You have given a token to those who fear You, that they might flee from the bow. Selah. 
5 That Your beloved ones may be delivered; save with Your right hand, and hear me. 
6 God has spoken in His holiness; I will rejoice, and divide Shechem, and measure out the Valley of Tents. 
7 Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; and Ephraim is the strength of My head;  
8 Judah is My king; Moab is the caldron of My hope; over Edom will I stretch out My shoe; the Philistines have been subjected to Me. 
9 Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will guide me as far as Edom? 
10 Will not You, O God, who has cast us off? And will not You, O God, go forth with our forces? 
11 Give us help from trouble; for vain is the deliverance of man. 
12 In God will we do valiantly; and He shall bring to nought them that harass us.                   
     
     
     PSALM 61

1 A Psalm, among the Hymns of David. 
O God, hear my supplication; attend to my prayer. 
2 From the ends of the earth have I cried to You, when my heart was in trouble; You lifted me up on a rock; You guided me; 
3 because You were my hope, a tower of strength from the face of the enemy. 
4 I will dwell in Your tabernacle forever; I will shelter myself under the shadow of Your wings. Selah. 
5 For You, O God, have heard my prayers; You have given an inheritance to those who fear Your name. 
6 You will add days to the days of the king; You will lengthen his years to all generations. 
7 He will endure forever before God. Which of them will seek out His mercy and truth? 
8 So will I sing to Your name forever and ever, that I may daily perform my vows.                  
     PSALM 62

1 A Psalm of David to Jeduthun.  
Shall not my soul be subjected to God? For from Him is my salvation. 
2 For He is my God, and my savior; my helper, I will not be greatly moved.  
3 How long will you assault a man? You are all slaughtering as with a bowed wall and a broken hedge. 
4 They only took counsel to set at nought my honor. I ran in thirst; with their mouth they blessed, but with their heart they cursed. Selah. 
5 Nevertheless, my soul is subjected to God; for of Him is my patient hope. 
6 For He is my God and my Savior; my helper, I will not be moved. 
7 In God is my salvation and my glory; He is the God of my help, and my hope is in God.  
8 Hope in Him, all you congregation of the people; pour out your hearts before Him, for God is our helper. Selah. 
9 But the sons of men are vain; the sons of men are false, so as to be deceitful in the balances; they are all alike, formed out of vanity.  
10 Do not trust in unrighteousness, and do not lust after robberies. If wealth should flow in, do not set your heart upon it. 
11 God has spoken once, and I have heard these two things, that power is of God; 
12 and mercy is Yours, O Lord; for You will recompense everyone according to his works.                    
     
     PSALM 63

1 A Psalm of David, when he was in the Wilderness of Edom.  
O God, my God, I cry to You early; my soul has thirsted for You: how often has my flesh longed after You, in a barren and trackless and dry land! 
2 Thus have I appeared before You in the sanctuary, that I might see Your power and Your glory. 
3 For Your mercy is better than life; my lips shall praise You.  
4 Thus will I bless You during my life: I will lift up my hands in Your name. 
5 Let my soul be filled as with marrow and fatness; and my joyful lips shall praise Your name. 
6 For I have remembered You on my bed; in the early seasons I have meditated on You.  
7 For You have been my helper, and in the shelter of Your wings will I rejoice. 
8 My soul has kept very close behind You: Your right hand has upheld me.  
9 But they vainly sought after my soul; they will go into the lowest parts of the earth. 
10 They will be delivered up to the power of the sword; they will be portions for jackals. 
11 But the king will rejoice in God; everyone that swears by Him will be praised; for the mouth of those who speak unjust things has been stopped.                  
     
     PSALM 64

1 A Psalm of David.  
Hear my prayer, O God, when I make my petition to You; deliver my soul from fear of the enemy. 
2 You have sheltered me from the conspiracy of those who do wickedly; from the multitude of those who work iniquity; 
3 who have sharpened their tongues like a sword; they have bent their bow maliciously; 
4 to shoot in secret at the blameless; they will shoot him suddenly, and will not fear. 
5 They have set up for themselves an evil matter, they have given counsel to hide snares; they have said, “Who shall see them?” 
6 They have searched out iniquity; they have wearied themselves with searching diligently, a man shall approach and the heart is deep, 
7 and God shall be exalted, their wounds were caused by the weapon of the foolish children, 
8 and their tongues have set him at nought, all that saw them were troubled; 
9 and every man was alarmed, and they related the works of God, and understood His deeds. 
10 The righteous will rejoice in the Lord, and hope in Him, and all the upright in heart will be praised.                 
     
     PSALM 65

1 A Psalm and Song of David.  
Praise becomes You, O God, in Zion; and to You shall the vow be performed. 
2 Hear my prayer; to You all flesh shall come. 
3 The words of transgressors have overpowered us; but You pardon our sins. 
4 Blessed is he whom You have chosen and adopted; he shall dwell in Your courts; we shall be filled with the good things of Your house; Your temple is holy. 
5 You are wonderful in righteousness. Hearken to us, O God our Savior; the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of those who are on the sea afar off; 
6 who establish the mountains in Your strength, being girded about with power;  
7 who trouble the depth of the sea, the sounds of its waves. 
8 The nations shall be troubled, and those who inhabit the ends of the earth will be afraid of the signs; You will cause the outgoings of morning and evening to rejoice. 
9 You have visited the earth, and saturated it; You have abundantly enriched it. The river of God is filled with water; You have prepared their food, for thus is the preparation of it. 
10 Saturate her furrows, multiply her fruits; the crop springing up shall rejoice in its drops. 
11 You will bless the crown of the year because of Your goodness; and Your plains shall be filled with fatness. 
12 The mountains of the wilderness will be enriched; and the hills will gird themselves with joy. 
13 The rams of the flock are clothed with wool, and the valleys will abound in grain; they will cry aloud; yes, they will sing hymns.                  
     
     PSALM 66
     
1 A Psalm of resurrection.  
Shout unto God, all the earth. 
2 O sing praises to His name; give glory to His praise. 
3 Say unto God, “How awesome are Your works!” Through the greatness of Your power Your enemies will submit themselves to You. 
4 Let all the earth worship You, and sing to You; let them sing to Your name. Selah. 
5 Come and behold the works of God; He is mighty in His counsels beyond the children of men, 
6 who turns the sea into dry land; they will go through the river on foot; there will we rejoice in Him, 
7 who by His power is Lord over the ages, His eyes look upon the nations; let not those who provoke Him be exalted in themselves. Selah.  
8 Bless our God, you Gentiles, and make the voice of his praise to be heard; 
9 who quickens my soul in life, and does not allow my feet to be moved. 
10 For You, O God, have proved us; You have tried us with fire as silver is tried. 
11 You have brought us into the snare; You have laid afflictions on our back. 
12 You have caused men to ride over our heads; we went through the fire and water; but You brought us out into a place of refreshment. 
13 I will go into Your house with burnt offerings; I will pay my vows to You, 
14 which my lips have framed, and my mouth uttered in my affliction. 
15 I will offer to You whole burnt sacrifices full of marrow, with incense and rams; I will sacrifice to You oxen with goats. Selah. 
16 Come and hear, and I will tell, all You that fear God, what great things He has done for my soul. 
17 I cried to Him with my mouth, and exalted Him with my tongue. 
18 If I have regarded iniquity in my heart, let not the Lord hearken to me. 
19 Therefore God has hearkened to me; He has attended to the voice of my prayer. 
20 Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer, nor His mercy from me.                 
     
     PSALM 67

1 A Psalm of David among the Hymns.  
God be merciful to us, and bless us; and cause Your face to shine upon us. Selah. 
2 That men may know Your way on the earth, Your salvation among all nations. 
3 Let the nations, O God, give thanks to You; let all the nations give thanks to You. 
4 Let the nations rejoice and exalt, for You shall judge the people in equity, and shall guide the nations on the earth. Selah. 
5 Let the people, O God, give thanks to You; let all the people give thanks to You. 
6 The earth has yielded her fruit; let God, our God, bless us. 
7 Let God bless us, and let all the ends of the earth fear Him.                
     
     PSALM 68

1 A Psalm of David, a Song.  
Let God arise, and let His enemies be scattered; and let those who hate Him flee from before Him. 
2 As smoke vanishes, let them vanish: as wax melts before the fire, so let the sinners perish from before God. 
3 But let the righteous rejoice; let them exalt before God: let them be delighted with joy. 
4 Sing to God, sing praises to His name: make a way for Him that rides upon the west (the Lord is His name) and rejoice before Him. They shall be troubled before the face of Him, 
5 who is the Father of the orphans, and Judge of the widows; such is God in His holy place. 
6 God settles the solitary in a house; leading forth prisoners mightily, also those who act provokingly, even those who dwell in tombs. 
7 O God, when You went forth before Your people, when You went through the wilderness; Selah. 
8 The earth quaked; yes, the heavens dropped water at the presence of the God of Sinai, at the presence of the God of Israel. 
9 O God, You will grant to Your inheritance a gracious rain; for it was weary, but You have refreshed it. 
10 Your creatures dwell in it; You have in Your goodness prepared for the poor.  
11 The Lord God will give a word to them that preach it in a great company. 
12 The king of the forces of the beloved will even grant them for the beauty of the house to divide the spoils. 
13 Even if you should lie among the lots, you shall have the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her breast with yellow gold.  
14 When the heavenly One scatters kings upon it, they shall be made snow-white in Zalmon. 
15 The mountain of God is a rich mountain; a swelling mountain, a rich mountain.  
16 Why do you conceive evil, you swelling mountains? This is the mountain which God has delighted to dwell in; yes, the Lord will dwell in it forever. 
17 The chariots of God are ten thousand fold, thousands of rejoicing ones; the Lord is among them, in Sinai, in the holy place. 
18 You have ascended on high, You have led captivity captive, You have received gifts among men, yea, for they were rebellious, that You might dwell among them.  
19 Blessed be the Lord God, blessed be the Lord daily; and the God of our salvation shall prosper us. Selah. 
20 Our God is the God of salvation; and to the Lord belong the issues from death. 
21 But God shall crust the heads of His enemies; the hairy crown of them that go on in their trespasses. 
22 The Lord said, “I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring My people again through the depths of the sea.” 
23 That your foot may be dipped in blood, and the tongue of your dogs be stained with that of your enemies. 
24 Your goings, O God, have been seen; the goings of my God, the King, in the sanctuary. 
25 The princes went first, next before the players on instruments, in the midst of maidens playing on timbrels. 
26 Praise God in the congregations, the Lord from the fountains of Israel. 
27 There is Benjamin the younger one in ecstasy, the princes of Judah their rulers, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali. 
28 O God, command Your strength; strengthen, O God, that which You have done in us. 
29 Because of Your temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents to You. 
30 Rebuke the wild beasts of the reed; let the crowd of bulls with the heifers of the nations be rebuked, so that they who have been proved with silver may not be shut out; scatter the nations that wish for wars. 
31 Ambassadors shall arrive out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall hasten to stretch out her hand readily to God. 
32 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; sing psalms to the Lord. Selah. 
33 Sing to God that rides on the heaven of heavens, eastward: lo, He will utter a mighty sound with His voice.  
34 Give glory to God: His excellency is over Israel, and His power is in the clouds. 
35 God is wonderful in His holy places, the God of Israel; He will give power and strength to His people; blessed be God.                  
     
     PSALM 69

1 A Psalm of David.  
Save me, O God; for the waters have come in to my soul.  
2 I am stuck fast in deep mire, and there is no standing: I have come in to the depths of the sea, and a storm has overwhelmed me. 
3 I am weary of crying, my throat has become hoarse; my eyes have failed by my waiting on my God. 
4 Those that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. My enemies that persecute me unrighteously have become strong. Then I restored that which I did not take away.  
5 O God, You know my foolishness; and my transgressions are not hidden from You.  
6 Let not them that wait on You, O Lord of hosts, be ashamed on my account; let not them that seek You, be ashamed on my account, O God of Israel. 
7 For I have suffered reproach for Your sake; shame has covered my face. 
8 I became a stranger to my brothers, and a stranger to my mother's children. 
9 For the zeal of Your house has eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached You have fallen upon me.  
10 And I bowed down my soul with fasting, and that was made my reproach. 
11 And I put on sackcloth for my covering; and I became a proverb to them. 
12 Those that sit in the gate talked against me, and those that drank wine sang against me. 
13 But I will cry to You, O Lord, in my prayer; O God, it is an acceptable time: in the multitude of Your mercy hear me, in the truth of Your salvation. 
14 Save me from the mire, that I may not sink down; let me be delivered from those who hate me, and from the deep waters. 
15 Do not let the floodwater drown me, nor let the deep swallow me up; neither let the well shut its mouth upon me. 
16 Hear me, O Lord; for Your mercy is good: according to the multitude of Your compassions, look upon me. 
17 And do not turn away Your face from Your servant; for I am afflicted; hear me speedily.  
18 Draw near to my soul and redeem it: deliver me because of my enemies. 
19 For You know my reproach, and my shame, and my confusion; all that afflict me are before You. 
20 My soul has waited for reproach and misery; and I waited for one to grieve with me, but there was none; and for one to comfort me, but I found none. 
21 They gave me also gall for my food, and made me drink vinegar for my thirst. 
22 Let their table before them be for a snare, and for a recompense, and for a stumbling block.  
23 Let their eyes be darkened that they should not see; and bow down their back continually. 
24 Pour out Your wrath upon them, and let the fury of Your anger take hold of them. 
25 Let their habitation be made desolate; and let there be no inhabitant in their tents;  
26 because they persecuted him whom You have smitten; and they have added to the grief of my wounds. 
27 Add iniquity to their iniquity; and let them not come into Your righteousness. 
28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and let them not be written with the righteous. 
29 I am poor and sorrowful; but the salvation of Your countenance has helped me. 
30 I will praise the name of my God with a song, I will magnify Him with praise; 
31 and this shall please God more than a young calf having horns and hoofs. 
32 Let the poor see and rejoice; seek the Lord diligently, and you shall live. 
33 For the Lord hears the poor, and does not despise His prisoners. 
34 Let the heavens and the earth praise Him, the sea, and all things moving in them. 
35 For God will save Zion, and the cities of Judah shall be built; and men shall dwell there, and inherit it. 
36 And the descendants of His servants shall possess it, and those that love His name shall dwell in it.               
     
     PSALM 70

1 A Psalm of David for a remembrance, that the Lord may save me. 
Draw near, O God, to my help. 
2 Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek my soul; let them be turned backward and put to shame, those that wish me evil. 
3 Let those who say to me, “Aha, aha,” be turned back and put to shame immediately. 
4 Let all who seek You rejoice and be glad in You: and let those who love Your salvation say continually, “Let God be magnified.” 
5 But I am poor and needy; O God, help me: You are my helper and deliverer, O Lord; do not delay.                 
     
     PSALM 71

1 By David, A Psalm sung by the sons of Jonadab, and the first that were taken captive.  
O Lord, I have hoped in You; let me never be put to shame. 
2 In Your righteousness deliver me and rescue me: incline Your ear to me, and save me. 
3 Be to me a protecting God, and a stronghold to save me; for You are my fortress and my refuge. 
4 Deliver me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, from the hand of the transgressor and unjust man. 
5 For You are my support, O Lord; O Lord, You are my hope from my youth. 
6 On You have I been stayed from the womb: from the belly of my mother You have been my protector: of You is my praise offered continually.  
7 I have become as it were a wonder to many, but You are my strong helper. 
8 Let my mouth be filled with praise, that I may sing hymns to Your glory and Your majesty all the day. 
9 Do not cast me off at the time of old age; do not forsake me when my strength fails. 
10 For my enemies have spoken against me; and they that lay wait for my soul have taken counsel together, 
11 saying, “God has forsaken him: persecute him, and take him; for there is none to deliver him.” 
12 O God, be not far from me; O my God, draw near to my help. 
13 Let those that plot evil against my soul be ashamed and utterly fail; let those that seek my hurt be clothed with shame and dishonor. 
14 But I will hope continually, and will praise You more and more. 
15 My mouth shall declare Your righteousness openly, and Your salvation all the day; for I am not acquainted with the affairs of men. 
16 I will go on in the might of the Lord: O Lord, I will make mention of Your righteousness only. 
17 O God, You have taught me from my youth, and until now will I declare Your wonders; 
18 even until I am old and advanced in years. O God, do not forsake me; until I have declared Your mighty arm to all the generation that is to come; 
19 even Your power and Your righteousness, O God, up to the highest heavens, even the mighty works which You have done; O God, who is like You? 
20 What many and great afflictions have You shown me! Yet You turned and revived me, and brought me again from the depths of the earth. 
21 You multiplied Your righteousness, and turned and comforted me, and brought me again out of the depths of the earth. 
22 I will also therefore give thanks to You, O God, because of Your truth, on an instrument of music; I will sing psalms to You on the harp, O Holy One of Israel. 
23 My lips shall rejoice when I sing to You; and my soul, which You have redeemed. 
24 Moreover also my tongue shall dwell all the day upon Your righteousness; when they shall be ashamed and confounded that seek my hurt.                   
     
     PSALM 72
     
1 For Solomon.  
O God, give Your judgment to the king, and Your righteousness to the king's son; 
2 that he may judge Your people with righteousness, and Your poor with judgment. 
3 Let the mountains and the hills raise peace to Your people. 
4 He shall judge the poor of the people in righteousness, and save the children of the needy; and shall bring low the false accuser. 
5 And He shall continue as long as the sun, and before the moon forever. 
6 He shall come down as rain upon a fleece, and as drops falling upon the earth. 
7 In His days shall righteousness spring up; and abundance of peace till the moon be removed. 
8 And He shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth. 
9 The Ethiopians shall fall down before Him, and His enemies shall lick the dust. 
10 The kings of Tarshish, and the isles, shall bring presents: the kings of the Arabians and Sheba shall offer gifts. 
11 And all kings shall worship Him; all the Gentiles shall serve Him. 
12 For He has delivered the poor from the oppressor; and the needy who had no helper. 
13 He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall deliver the souls of the needy. 
14 He shall redeem their souls from oppression and injustice, and their name shall be precious before Him. 
15 And He shall live, and the gold of Arabia shall be given to Him, and men shall pray for Him continually; and all the day shall they praise Him. 
16 There shall be an establishment on the earth on the tops of the mountains; its fruit shall be exalted above Lebanon, and those of the city shall flourish as grass of the earth. 
17 Let His name be blessed forever; His name shall endure longer than the sun, and all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed in Him: all nations shall call Him blessed.  
18 Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, who alone does wonders. 
19 And blessed is His glorious name forever, even forever and ever; and all the earth shall be filled with His glory. Amen, and Amen. 
20 The hymns of David the son of Jesse are ended.                   
     
     PSALM 73

1 A Psalm of Asaph.  
How good is God to Israel, to the upright in heart! 
2 But my feet were almost overthrown; my steps very nearly slipped. 
3 For I was jealous of the transgressors, beholding the tranquility of sinners. 
4 For there is no sign of reluctance in their death, and they have firmness under their affliction. 
5 They are not in trouble like other men; and they shall not be scourged with other men.
6 Therefore pride has possessed them; they have clothed themselves with their injustice and ungodliness. 
7 Their injustice shall go forth as out of fatness; they have fulfilled their intention. 
8 They have taken counsel and spoken in wickedness; they have uttered unrighteousness proudly. 
9 They have set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue has gone through upon the earth. 
10 Therefore shall my people return here, and full days shall be found with them.  
11 And they said, “How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?”  
12 Behold, these are the sinners, and they that prosper always; they have possessed wealth. 
13 And I said, “Verily in vain have I justified my heart, and washed my hands in innocence.” 
14 For I was plagued all the day, and my reproof was every morning. 
15 If I said, “I will speak thus”; behold, I should have broken covenant with the generation of Your children. 
16 And I undertook to understand this, but it was too hard for me, 
17 until I went into the sanctuary of God, and I understood their end. 
18 Surely You have appointed judgments to them because of their crafty dealings; You have cast them down when they were lifted up. 
19 How have they become desolate! Suddenly they have failed; they have perished because of their iniquity. 
20 As the dream of one awakening, O Lord, in Your city You will despise their image. 
21 For my heart has rejoiced, and my heart has been gladdened.  
22 But I was vile and did not know: I was like a beast before You. 
23 Yet I am continually with You. You have taken hold of my right hand. 
24 You have guided me by Your counsel, and You have taken me to Yourself with glory. 
25 For whom have I in heaven but You? And what have I desired upon the earth besides You? 
26 My heart and my flesh have failed; but God is the strength of my heart, and God is my portion forever. 
27 For behold, those who remove themselves far from You shall perish; You have destroyed everyone who deserts You for harlotry. 
28 But it is good for me to cleave close to God, to put my trust in the Lord; that I may proclaim all Your praises in the gates of the daughter of Zion.                 
     
     PSALM 74

1 A Psalm of instruction, of Asaph.  
Why have You cast us off forever, O God? Why has Your wrath been kindled against the sheep of Your pasture?  
2 Remember Your congregation which You have purchased from the beginning; You ransomed the rod of Your inheritance, this Mount Zion where You have dwelt. 
3 Lift up Your hands against their pride continually; because of all that the enemy has done wickedly in Your holy places. 
4 And those who hate You have boasted in the midst of Your feast; they have set up their standards for signs, 
5 ignorantly as it were in the entrance above; 
6 they cut down its doors at once with axes as in a wood of trees; they have broken it down with hatchet and stone cutter. 
7 They have burned Your sanctuary with fire to the ground; they have profaned the habitation of Your name.  
8 They have said in their heart, even all their kindred together, “Come, let us abolish the feasts of the Lord from the earth.” 
9 We have not seen our signs; there is no longer a prophet; and God will not know us anymore. 
10 How long, O God, shall the enemy reproach? Shall the enemy provoke Your name forever? 
11 Why do You turn away Your hand, and Your right hand from the midst of Your bosom forever? 
12 But God is our King from of old; He has wrought salvation in the midst of the earth.  
13 You established the sea in Your might, You broke to pieces the heads of the dragons in the water.  
14 You broke to pieces the heads of the dragon; You gave him as meat to the Ethiopian nations. 
15 You broke open the fountains and torrents; You dried up mighty rivers.  
16 The day is Yours, and the night is Yours; You have prepared the sun and the moon. 
17 You have made all the borders of the earth; You have made summer and spring. 
18 Remember this Your creation; an enemy has reproached the Lord, and a foolish people have provoked Your name. 
19 Do not deliver to the wild beasts a soul that gives praise to You: do not forget forever the souls of Your poor. 
20 Look upon Your covenant; for the dark places of the earth are filled with the habitations of iniquity. 
21 Let not the afflicted and ashamed one be rejected; the poor and needy shall praise Your name. 
22 Arise, O God, plead Your cause; remember Your reproaches that come from the foolish one all the day. 
23 Do not forget the voice of Your enemies; let the pride of them that hate You continually ascend before You.                 
     
     PSALM  75

1 A Psalm of Asaph, a Song.  
We will give thanks to You, O God, we will give thanks, and call upon Your name. 
2 I will declare all Your wonderful works. When I shall take a set time, I will judge righteously. 
3 The earth is dissolved, and all that dwell in it; I have strengthened its pillars. Selah. 
4 I said unto the transgressors, “Do not transgress”; and to the sinners, “Do not lift up the horn.
5 Do not lift up your horn on high; do not speak unrighteousness against God.” 
6 For good comes neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the desert mountains. 
7 For God is the judge; He puts one down, and raises up another. 
8 For there is a cup in the hand of the Lord, full of unmingled wine; and He has turned it from side to side, but its dregs have not been wholly poured out; all the sinners of the earth shall drink them.  
9 But I will exalt forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 
10 And I will break all the horns of sinners; but the horns of the righteous one shall be exalted.                  
     
     PSALM 76
     
1 A Psalm of Asaph, among the Hymns, a Song for the Assyrian.  
God is known in Judah; His name is great in Israel. 
2 And His place has been in peace, and His dwelling place in Zion.  
3 There He broke the power of the bows, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah. 
4 You wonderfully shine forth from the everlasting mountains. 
5 All the simple ones in heart were troubled; all the men of wealth have slept their sleep, and have found nothing in their hands. 
6 At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, the riders on horses slumbered. 
7 For You are to be feared; and who shall withstand You, because of Your anger? 
8 You caused judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still, 
9 when God arose to judgment, to save all the meek in heart. Selah. 
10 For the inward thought of man shall give thanks to You, and the memorial of his inward thought shall keep a feast to You. 
11 Vow, and pay your vows to the Lord our God; all that are round about Him shall bring gifts, 
12 even to Him that is awesome, and that takes away the spirits of princes; to Him that is awesome among the kings of the earth.               
     
     PSALM 77

1 A Psalm of Asaph.  
I cried to the Lord with my voice, yes, my voice was addressed to God; and He listened to me. 
2 In the day of my affliction I earnestly sought the Lord; even with my hands by night before Him, and I was not deceived; my soul refused to be comforted. 
3 I remembered God, and rejoiced; I poured out my complaint, and my soul fainted. Selah. 
4 All my enemies set a watch against me; I was troubled, and did not speak.  
5 I considered the days of old, and remembered ancient ears. 
6 And I meditated; I communed with my heart by night, and diligently searched my spirit, saying, 
7 “Will the Lord cast off forever? And will He be well pleased no more? 
8 Will He cut off His mercy forever, even forever and ever? 
9 Will God forget to pity? Or will He shut up His compassions in His wrath?” Selah. 
10 And I said, “Now I have begun; this is the change of the right hand of the Most High.” 
11 I remembered the works of the Lord; for I will remember Your wonders from the beginning. 
12 And I will meditate on all Your works, and will consider Your doings. 
13 O God, Your way is in the sanctuary; who is a great God as our God? 
14 You are the God that performs wonders; You have made known Your power among the nations. 
15 You have redeemed Your people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph, with Your outstretched arm. Selah. 
16 The waters saw You, O God, the waters saw You, and feared; and the depths were troubled. 
17 There was an abundant sound of waters; the clouds uttered a voice; for Your arrows went abroad. 
18 The voice of Your thunder was abroad, and around Your lightnings appeared to the world; the earth trembled and quaked. 
19 Your way is in the sea, and Your paths in many waters, and Your footsteps cannot be known. 
20 You guided Your people like sheep by the hand of Moses and Aaron.               
     
     PSALM 78

1 A Psalm of instruction, of Asaph.  
Give heed, O my people, to my law; incline your ear to the words of my mouth.  
2 I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter dark sayings which have been from the beginning.  
3 All which we have heard and known, and our fathers have declared to us. 
4 They were not hid from their children to a second generation; the fathers declaring the praises of the Lord, and His mighty acts, and His wonders which He has done. 
5 And He raised up a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which He commanded our fathers, to make it known to their children; 
6 that another generation might know, even the sons which should be born; and they should arise and declare them to their children, 
7 that they might set their hope on God, and not forget the works of God, but diligently seek His commandments. 
8 That they should not be as their fathers, a perverse and provoking generation; a generation which did not set its heart right, and its spirit was not steadfast with God.  
9 The children of Ephraim, bending and shooting with the bow, turned back in the day of battle. 
10 They did not keep the covenant of God, and would not walk in His law. 
11 And they forgot His benefits, and His miracles which He had shown them; 
12 the miracles which He did before their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the plain of Zoan. 
13 He divided the sea, and led them through; He made the waters to stand as in a bottle. 
14 And He guided them with a cloud by day, and all the night with a light of fire. 
15 He split a rock in the wilderness, and made them drink as in a great deep. 
16 And He brought water out of the rock, and caused the waters to flow down as rivers. 
17 And they sinned even more against Him; they provoked the Most High in the wilderness. 
18 And they tempted God in their hearts, in asking meat for the desire of their souls. 
19 They spoke also against God, and said, “Will God be able to prepare a table in the wilderness? 
20 Forasmuch as He struck the rock, and the waters flowed, and the torrents ran abundantly; will He be able also to give bread, or prepare a table for His people?” 
21 Therefore the Lord heard, and was provoked: and fire was kindled in Jacob, and wrath went up against Israel. 
22 Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in His salvation. 
23 Yet He commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven, 
24 and rained upon them manna to eat, and gave them the bread of heaven. 
25 Man ate angels' bread; He sent them provision to the full.  
26 He removed the south wind from heaven; and by His might He brought in the south west wind. 
27 And He rained upon them flesh like dust, and feathered birds like the sand on the seashore. 
28 And they fell into the midst of their camp, round about their tents. 
29 So they ate, and were completely filled; and He gave them their desire. 
30 They were not disappointed of their desire, but when their food was yet in their mouth, 
31 then the indignation of God rose up against them, and slew the fattest of them, and overthrew the choice men of Israel. 
32 In the midst of all this they sinned even more, and did not believe His miracles. 
33 And their days were consumed in vanity, and their years with anxiety. 
34 When He slew them, they sought Him; and they returned and sought diligently after God. 
35 And they remembered that God was their Helper, and the Most High God was their Redeemer. 
36 Yet they loved Him only with their mouth, and lied to Him with their tongue. 
37 For their heart was not right with Him, neither were they steadfast in His covenant. 
38 But He is compassionate, and will forgive their sins, and will not destroy them; indeed, He will frequently turn away His wrath, and will not kindle all His anger.  
39 And He remembered that they are flesh; a wind that passes away, and does not return. 
40 How often did they provoke Him in the wilderness, and anger Him in a dry land! 
41 Yes, they turned back, and tempted God, and provoked the Holy One of Israel. 
42 They did not remember His hand, the day in which He delivered them from the hand of the oppressor. 
43 How He had worked His signs in Egypt, and His wonders in the field of Zoan; 
44 and had changed their rivers into blood, and their streams, that they should not drink.  
45 He sent the dog-fly against them, and it devoured them; and the frog, and it spoiled them. 
46 And He gave their fruit to the canker worm, and their labors to the locust. 
47 He killed their vines with hail, and their sycamores with frost. 
48 And He gave up their cattle to hail, and their substance to the fire. 
49 He sent out against them the fury of His anger, wrath, and indignation, and affliction, a message by evil angels. 
50 He made a way for His wrath; He did not spare their souls from death, but consigned their cattle to death; 
51 and He struck down every firstborn in the land of Egypt; the firstfruits of their labors in the tents of Ham. 
52 And He removed His people like sheep; He led them as a flock in the wilderness. 
53 And He guided them with hope, and they did not fear; but the sea covered their enemies. 
54 And He brought them in to the mountain of His sanctuary, this mountain which His right hand had purchased. 
55 And He cast out the nations from before them, and made them to inherit by a line of inheritance, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents. 
56 Yet they tempted and provoked the Most High God, and did not keep His testimonies. 
57 And they turned back, and broke covenant, even as also their fathers; they became like a crooked bow. 
58 And they provoked Him with their high places, and moved Him to jealousy with their graven images. 
59 God heard and lightly regarded them, and greatly despised Israel.  
60 And He rejected the tabernacle of Shiloh, His tent where He dwelt among men. 
61 And He gave their strength into captivity, and their beauty into the enemy's hand. 
62 And He gave His people to the sword; and disdained His inheritance.  
63 Fire devoured their young men; and their virgins did not mourn. 
64 Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows shall not be wept for. 
65 So the Lord awakened as one out of sleep, and as a mighty man who has been heated with wine. 
66 And He beat back His enemies; He brought on them a perpetual reproach. 
67 And He rejected the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim; 
68 but chose the tribe of Judah, the Mount Zion which He loved. 
69 And He built His sanctuary as the place of unicorns; He founded it forever on the earth. 
70 He chose David also His servant, and took him up from the flocks of sheep. 
71 He took him from following the ewes great with young, to be the shepherd of Jacob His servant, and Israel His inheritance. 
72 So he tended them in the innocence of his heart; and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.                 
     
     PSALM 79

1 A Psalm of Asaph.  
O God, the heathen have come into Your inheritance; they have polluted Your holy temple; they have made Jerusalem a storehouse of fruits. 
2 They have given the dead bodies of Your servants to be food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of Your holy ones for the wild beasts of the earth. 
3 They have shed their blood as water, round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them. 
4 We have become a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. 
5 How long, O Lord? Will You be angry forever? Shall Your jealousy burn like fire? 
6 Pour out Your wrath upon the heathen that have not known You, and upon the kingdoms which have not called upon Your name. 
7 For they have devoured Jacob, and laid his place waste. 
8 Remember not our old transgressions; let Your tender mercies come speedily to meet us; for we are greatly impoverished. 
9 Help us, O God our Savior; for the glory of Your name, O Lord, deliver us; and be merciful to our sins, for Your name's sake. 
10 Why should the heathen say, “Where is their God?” And let the avenging of Your servant's blood that has been shed be known among the heathen before our eyes. 
11 Let the groaning of the prisoners come in before You; according to the greatness of Your power, preserve the sons of the slain.  
12 Repay to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, with which they have reproached You, O Lord. 
13 For we are Your people and the sheep of Your pasture; we will give You thanks forever; we will declare Your praise throughout all generations.                  
     
     
     
     
     
     
     PSALM 80

1 A Psalm of Asaph, a testimony concerning the Assyrian.  
Attend, O Shepherd of Israel, who guides Joseph like a flock; You who sit upon the cherubim, manifest Yourself;  
2 before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up Your power, and come to deliver us. 
3 Turn us, O God, and cause Your face to shine, and we shall be delivered. 
4 O Lord God of hosts, how long will You be angry with the prayer of Your servant? 
5 You will feed us with the bread of tears; and will cause us to drink tears by measure. 
6 You have made us a strife to our neighbors; and our enemies have mocked us. 
7 Turn us, O Lord God of hosts, and cause Your face to shine; and we shall be saved. Selah. 
8 You have transplanted a vine out of Egypt; You have cast out the heathen, and planted it. 
9 You made a way before it, and caused its roots to strike, and the land was filled with it. 
10 Its shadow covered the mountains, and its shoots equaled the choice cedars.  
11 It sent forth its branches to the sea, and its shoots to the river. 
12 Why have You broken down its hedge, while all that pass by the way pluck it? 
13 The boar out of the wood has laid it waste, and the wild beast has devoured it. 
14 O God of hosts, turn, we pray; look on us from heaven, and behold and visit this vine; 
15 and restore that which Your right hand has planted, and look on the son of man whom You have strengthened for Yourself. 
16 It is burned with fire and dug up; they shall perish at the rebuke of Your presence.  
17 Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, and upon the son of man whom You have strengthened for Yourself. 
18 So will we not depart from You: You shall revive us, and we shall call upon Your name. 
19 Turn us, O Lord God of hosts, and cause Your face to shine; and we shall be saved.                  
     
     PSALM 81
     
1 A Psalm for Asaph.  
Rejoice in God our helper; shout aloud to the God of Jacob.  
2 Take a psalm, and produce the timbrel, the pleasant psaltery with the harp. 
3 Blow the trumpet at the new moon, in the glorious day of your feast.  
4 For this is an ordinance for Israel, and a statute of the God of Jacob. 
5 He made it to be a testimony in Joseph, when he came forth out of the land of Egypt; he heard a language which he did not understand.  
6 He removed his back from burdens; his hands slaved in making the baskets. 
7 You called upon Me in trouble, and I delivered you; I heard you in the secret place of the storm; I proved you at the Water of Strife. Selah.  
8 “Hear, My people, and I will speak to you, O Israel; and I will testify to you; if you will hearken to Me; 
9 there shall be no new god in you; neither shall you worship a strange god. 
10 For I am the Lord your God, that brought you out of the land of Egypt; open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. 
11 But My people did not obey My voice; and Israel gave no heed to Me. 
12 So I let them go after the ways of their own hearts; they will go on in their own ways. 
13 If My people had listened to Me, if Israel had walked in My ways, 
14 I would have put down their enemies very quickly, and would have laid My hand upon those that afflicted them.” 
15 The Lord's enemies would have lied to Him; but their time shall be forever.  
16 And He fed them with the fat of wheat; and satisfied them with honey out of the rock.                 
     
     
     
     PSALM 82
     
1 A Psalm of Asaph.  
God stands in the assembly of gods; and in the midst of them will judge gods. 
2 How long will you judge unrighteously, and accept the persons of sinners? Selah. 
3 Judge the orphan and poor; do justice to the low and needy.  
4 Rescue the needy, and deliver the poor out of the hand of the sinner. 
5 They do not know, nor understand; they walk on in darkness; all the foundations of the earth shall be shaken. 
6 I have said, “You are gods; and all of you children of the Most High. 
7 But you die as men, and fall as one of the princes.” 
8 Arise, O God, judge the earth; for You shall inherit all nations.                
     
     
     PSALM 83
     
1 A Song of a Psalm of Asaph.  
O God, who shall be compared to You? Be not silent, neither be still, O God. 
2 For behold, Your enemies have made a noise; and those who hate You have lifted up the head. 
3 Against Your people they have craftily imagined an evil plan, and have taken counsel against Your saints. 
4 They have said, “Come, and let us utterly destroy them out of the nation; and let the name of Israel be remembered no more.” 
5 For they have taken counsel together with one consent; they have made a confederacy against You; 
6 even the tents of the Edomites, and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagrites; 
7 Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines also, with them that dwell at Tyre. 
8 Behold, Assyria too has come with them; they have become a help to the children of Lot. Selah. 
9 Do to them as to Midian, and to Sisera; as to Jabin at the Brook of Kishon. 
10 They were utterly destroyed at Endor; they became as dung on the earth. 
11 Make their princes as Oreb and Zeeb, and Zebah and Zalmunna; even all their princes, 
12 who said, “Let us take to ourselves the altar of God as an inheritance.”  
13 O my God, make them as a wheel, as stubble before the face of the wind. 
14 As fire which shall burn up the wood, as the flame may consume the mountains; 
15 so shall You persecute them with Your tempest, and trouble them in Your anger. 
16 Fill their faces with dishonor; so shall they seek Your name, O Lord. 
17 Let them be ashamed and troubled forevermore; yes, let them be confounded and destroyed. 
18 And let them know that Your name is Lord; that You alone are Most High over all the earth.                 
     
                                                                                  PSALM  84  
     
1 A Psalm for the sons of Korah.  
How lovely is Your tabernacle, O Lord of hosts! 
2 My soul longs and faints for the courts of the Lord; my heart and my flesh have exalted in the living God. 
3 Yea, the sparrow has found himself a home, and the turtledove a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even Your altars, O Lord of hosts my King, and my God. 
4 Blessed are those who dwell in Your house; they will praise You forevermore. Selah. 
5 Blessed is the man whose help is from You, O Lord; in his heart he has purposed to go up 
6 the Valley of Weeping, to the place which He has appointed, for there the Lawgiver shall grant blessings. 
7 They shall go from strength to strength; the God of gods shall be seen in Zion. 
8 O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; hearken, O God of Jacob. Selah. 
9 Behold, O God our defender, and look upon the face of Your anointed. 
10 For one day in Your courts is better than thousands. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of God, than dwell in the tents of sinners. 
11 For the Lord loves mercy and truth; God will give grace and glory; the Lord will not withhold good things from them that walk in innocence. 
12 O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusts in You!                
     
     
     PSALM 85

1 A Psalm for the sons of Korah.  O Lord, You have taken pleasure in Your land; You have turned back the captivity of Jacob. 
2 You have forgiven Your people their transgressions; You have covered all their sins. Selah. 
3 You have caused all Your wrath to cease; You have turned from Your fierce anger. 
4 Turn us, O God of our salvation, and turn Your anger away from us. 
5 Will You be angry with us forever? Will You continue Your wrath from generation to generation? 
6 O God, turn and revive us; and Your people shall rejoice in You. 
7 Show us Your mercy, O Lord, and grant us Your salvation. 
8 I will hear what the Lord God will say concerning me; for He shall speak peace to His people, and to His saints, and to those that turn their heart toward Him. 
9 Moreover His salvation is near to them that fear Him; that glory may dwell in our land. 
10 Mercy and truth have met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 
11 Truth has sprung out of the earth; and righteousness has looked down from heaven. 
12 For the Lord shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield its fruit. 
13 Righteousness shall go before Him; and shall make His footsteps our pathway.                 
     
     
     
     PSALM 86

1 A Prayer of David.  
O Lord, incline Your ear, and hearken to me; for I am poor and needy. 
2 Preserve my soul, for I am holy; save Your servant, O God, who trusts in You. 
3 Pity me, O Lord; for to You will I cry all the day. 
4 Make glad the soul of Your servant; for to You, O Lord, have I lifted up my soul. 
5 For You, O Lord, are kind and gentle, and abundant in mercy to all that call upon You. 
6 Give ear to my prayer, O Lord; and attend to the voice of my supplication. 
7 In the day of my trouble I cried to You; and You heard me. 
8 There is none like You, O Lord, among the gods; and there are no works like Your works. 
9 All nations whom You have made shall come and shall worship before You, O Lord; and shall glorify Your name. 
10 For You are great, and work wondrous things; You alone are the great God. 
11 Guide me, O Lord, in Your way, and I will walk in Your truth; let my heart rejoice, that I may fear Your name. 
12 I will give You thanks, O Lord my God, with all my heart; and I will glorify Your name forever. 
13 For Your mercy is great toward me; and You have delivered my soul from the depths of hell. 
14 O God, transgressors have risen up against me, and an assembly of violent men have sought my life; and have not set You before them. 
15 But You, O Lord God, are compassionate and merciful, longsuffering, and abundant in mercy and true. 
16 Look upon me, and have mercy upon me; give Your strength to Your servant, and save the son of Your maidservant. 
17 Show me a sign for good; and let them that hate me see it and be ashamed; because You, O Lord, have helped me, and comforted me.               
     
     PSALM  87
     
1 A Psalm of a Song for the sons of Korah.  
His foundations are in the holy mountains. 
2 The Lord loves the gates of Zion, more than all the tabernacles of Jacob. 
3 Glorious things have been spoken of you, O city of God. Selah. 
4 I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me; behold, also the Philistines, and Tyre, and the people of the Ethiopians; these were born there. 
5 A man shall say, “Zion is my mother”; and such a man was born in her; and the Highest Himself has founded her. 
6 The Lord shall recount it in the writing of the people, and of these princes that were born in her.  
7 The dwelling of all within you is as the dwelling of those that rejoice.                 
     
     
     PSALM  88
     
1 A song of a Psalm for the sons of Korah, for instruction.  
O Lord God of my salvation, I have cried by day and in the night before You.  
2 Let my prayer come in before You; incline Your ear to my supplication, O Lord. 
3 For my soul is filled with troubles, and my life has drawn near to Hades. 
4 I have been accounted with them that go down to the pit; I became as a man without help; 
5 free among the dead, as the slain ones cast out, who sleep in the tomb; whom You remember no more; and they are rejected from Your hand.  
6 They laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, and in the shadow of death. 
7 Your wrath has pressed heavily upon me, and You have brought upon me all Your billows. Selah. 
8 You have removed my acquaintances far from me; they have made me an abomination to themselves; I have been delivered up, and have not gone forth. 
9 My eyes are dimmed from poverty; but I cried out to You, O Lord, all the day; I spread forth my hands to You. 
10 Will You work wonders for the dead? Or shall physicians raise them up, that they shall praise You?  
11 Shall anyone declare Your mercy in the grave? And Your truth in destruction? 
12 Shall Your wonders be known in darkness? And Your righteousness in a forgotten land? 
13 But I cried out to You, O Lord; and in the morning shall my prayer come before You. 
14 Why, O Lord, do You reject my prayer, and turn Your face away from me?  
15 I am poor and in troubles from my youth; and having been exalted, I was brought low and into despair.  
16 Your wrath has passed over me; and Your terrors have greatly disquieted me. 
17 They surrounded me like water; all the day they beset me together. 
18 You have put far from me every friend, and my acquaintances because of my wretchedness.                
     
     PSALM  89
     
1 A Psalm of instruction for Ethan the Israelite.  
I will sing of Your mercies, O Lord, forever; I will declare Your truth with my mouth to all generations. 
2 For You have said, “Mercy shall be built up forever”; Your truth shall be established in the heavens. 
3 I made a covenant with My chosen ones, I swore unto David My servant. 
4 I will establish your descendants forever, and build up your throne to all generations. Selah.  
5 The heavens shall declare Your wonders, O Lord; and Your truth in the assembly of the saints. 
6 For who in the heavens shall be compared to the Lord? And who shall be likened to the Lord among the sons of God?  
7 God is glorified in the council of the saints; great and terrible toward all that are round about Him. 
8 O Lord God of hosts, who is like You? You are mighty, O Lord, and Your truth is round about You. 
9 You rule the power of the sea; and You calm the tumult of its waves. 
10 You have brought down the proud as one that is slain; and with the arm of Your power You have scattered Your enemies. 
11 The heavens are Yours, and the earth is Yours; You have founded the world, and the fullness of it. 
12 You have created the north and the west; Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in Your name.  
13 Yours is the mighty arm; let Your hand be strengthened, let Your right hand be exalted. 
14 Justice and judgment are the establishment of Your throne; mercy and truth shall go before Your face. 
15 Blessed are the people that knows the joyful sound; they shall walk, O Lord, in the light of Your countenance. 
16 And in Your name shall they rejoice all the day; and in Your righteousness shall they be exalted. 
17 For You are the boast of their strength; and in Your good pleasure shall our horn be exalted, 
18 for our help is of the Lord; and of the Holy One of Israel, our King. 
19 Then You spoke in a vision to Your children, and said, “I have laid help on a mighty one; I have exalted one chosen out of My people. 
20 I have found David My servant; I have anointed him by My holy mercy.  
21 For My hand shall support him; and My arm shall strengthen him. 
22 The enemy shall have no advantage against him; and the son of transgression shall not hurt him again. 
23 And I will hew down his foes before him, and put to flight those that hate him. 
24 But My truth and My mercy shall be with him; and in My name shall his horn be exalted. 
25 And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. 
26 He shall call upon Me, saying, ‘You are my Father, my God, and the helper of my salvation.’ 
27 And I will make him My firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. 
28 I will keep My mercy with him forever, and My covenant shall be firm with him. 
29 And I will establish his descendants forever and ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. 
30 If his children should forsake My law, and not walk in My judgments; 
31 if they should profane My ordinances, and not keep My commandments; 
32 I will visit their transgressions with a rod, and their sins with scourges. 
33 But My mercy I will not utterly remove from him, nor wrong My truth. 
34 Neither will I by any means profane My covenant; and I will not make void the things that proceed out of My lips. 
35 Once have I sworn by My holiness, that I will not lie to David. 
36 His descendants shall endure forever, and his throne as the sun before Me; 
37 and as the moon that is established forever, and as the faithful witness in heaven.” Selah. 
38 But You have cast off and set at nought, You have rejected Your anointed. 
39 You have overthrown the covenant of Your servant; You have profaned his sanctuary, casting it to the ground. 
40 You have broken down all his hedges; You have made his strongholds a terror. 
41 All that go by the way have spoiled him; he has become a reproach to his neighbors. 
42 You have exalted the right hand of his enemies; You have made all his enemies to rejoice. 
43 You have turned back the help of his sword, and have not helped him in the battle. 
44 You have deprived him of glory; You have broken down his throne to the ground.  
45 You have shortened the days of his throne; You have poured shame upon him. Selah.  
46 How long, O Lord? Will You turn away, forever? Shall Your anger flame out like fire? 
47 Remember what my being is; for have You created all the sons of men in vain? 
48 What man is there who shall live, and not see death? Shall anyone deliver his soul from the hand of Hades? Selah. 
49 Where are Your ancient mercies, O Lord, which You swore to David in Your truth? 
50 Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Your servants, which I have borne in my bosom, even the reproach of many nations; 
51 with which Your enemies have reviled, O Lord; with which they have reviled the recompense of Your anointed. 
52 Blessed be the Lord forever. Amen and Amen.                
     
     
     
     PSALM  90

1 A Prayer of Moses the man of God.  
Lord, You have been our refuge in all generations. 
2 Before the mountains existed, and before the earth and the world were formed, even from everlasting to everlasting, You are God. 
3 Do not turn man back to his low place, whereas You said, “Return, you sons of men.” 
4 For a thousand years in Your sight are like yesterday which is past, and like a watch in the night. 
5 Years shall be vanity to them; let the morning pass away as grass.  
6 In the morning let it flower, and pass away; in the evening let it droop, let it be withered and dried up. 
7 For we have perished in Your anger, and in Your wrath we have been troubled. 
8 You have set our transgressions before You; our age is in the light of Your countenance. 
9 For all our days are gone, and we have passed away in Your wrath; our years have spun out their tale as a spider.  
10 As for the days of our lives, they are seventy years; and by reason of strength they are eighty years; and the greater part of them would be labor and trouble; for weakness overtakes us, and we shall be chastened.  
11 Who knows the power of Your wrath? 
12 And who knows how to number his days because of the fear of Your wrath? So manifest Your right hand, and those that are instructed in wisdom in the heart. 
13 Return, O Lord! How long? And have compassion concerning Your servants.  
14 We have been satisfied in the morning with Your mercy; and we did exalt and rejoice; 
15 let us rejoice in all our days, in return for the days in which You afflicted us, the years in which we saw evil. 
16 And look upon Your servants, and upon Your works; and guide their children. 
17 And let the brightness of the Lord our God be upon us; and establish for us the works of our hands.                  
     
     PSALM   91

1 Praise of a Song, by David.  
He that dwells in the help of the Highest, shall sojourn under the shelter of the God of heaven. 
2 He shall say to the Lord, “You are my helper and my refuge; my God”; I will trust in Him. 
3 For He shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler, from every troublesome matter. 
4 He shall overshadow you with His shoulders, and You shall trust under His wings; His truth shall cover you with a shield. 
5 You shall not be afraid of terror by night; nor of the arrow flying by day; 
6 nor of the evil thing that walks in darkness; nor of calamity, and the evil spirit at noonday.  
7 A thousand shall fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it shall not come near you. 
8 Only with your eyes shall you observe and see the reward of sinners. 
9 For You, O Lord, are my hope; You, my soul, have made the Most High your refuge. 
10 No evils shall come upon you, and no scourge shall draw near to your dwelling. 
11 For He shall give His angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways. 
12 They shall bear you up on their hands, lest at any time you dash your foot against a stone.  
13 You shall tread on the asp and basilisk; and you shall trample on the lion and dragon. 
14 For he has hoped in Me, and I will deliver him; I will protect him, because he has known My name. 
15 He shall call upon Me, and I will hearken to him; I am with him in affliction; and I will deliver him, and glorify him. 
16 I will satisfy him with length of days, and show him My salvation.                 
     
     PSALM  92

1 A Psalm, a song for the Sabbath day.  
It is a good thing to give thanks to the Lord, and to sing praises to Your name, O Most High; 
2 to proclaim Your mercy in the morning, and Your truth by night, 
3 on a psaltery of ten strings, with a song on the harp. 
4 For You, O Lord, have made me glad with Your work; and in the operations of Your hands will I rejoice. 
5 How have Your works been magnified, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep. 
6 A foolish man will not know, and a senseless man will not understand this. 
7 When the sinners spring up as the grass, and all the workers of iniquity have watched; it is that they may be utterly destroyed forever.  
8 But You, O Lord, are Most High forever. 
9 For behold, Your enemies shall perish; and all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.  
10 But my horn shall be exalted as the horn of a unicorn; and my old age with rich mercy.  
11 And my eye has seen my enemies, and my ear shall hear the wicked that rise up against me. 
12 The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree; he shall be increased as the cedar in Lebanon. 
13 Those who are planted in the house of the Lord will flourish in the courts of our God. 
14 Then will they be increased in a fine old age; and they will be prosperous; that they may declare  
15 that the Lord my God is righteous, and there is no iniquity in Him.                 
     
     PSALM   93
     
1 For the day before the Sabbath, when the land was first inhabited, the praise of a Song by David.  
The Lord reigns; He has clothed Himself with honor; the Lord has clothed and girded Himself with strength; for He has established the world, which shall not be moved.  
2 Your throne is prepared of old; You are from everlasting. 
3 The rivers have lifted up, O Lord, the rivers have lifted up their voices,  
4 at the voices of many waters; the billows of the sea are wonderful; the Lord is wonderful in high places.  
5 Your testimonies are made very sure; holiness becomes Your house, O Lord, forever.                  
     
     PSALM  94

1 A Psalm of David, for the fourth day of the week.  
The Lord is a God of vengeance; the God of vengeance has declared Himself.  
2 Be exalted, You who judges the earth; render a reward to the proud. 
3 How long will sinners, O Lord, how long will sinners boast? 
4 They will utter and speak unrighteousness; all the workers of iniquity will speak so. 
5 They have afflicted Your people, O Lord, and hurt Your heritage. 
6 They have slain the widow and fatherless, and murdered the stranger. 
7 And they said, “The Lord will not see, neither will the God of Jacob understand.” 
8 Understand now, you simple among the people; and you fools, at length be wise. 
9 He that planted the ear, does He not hear? Or He that formed the eye, does not He perceive? 
10 He that chastises the heathen, shall He not punish, even He that teaches man knowledge? 
11 The Lord knows the thoughts of men, that they are vain.  
12 Blessed is the man whom You shall chasten, O Lord, and shall teach him out of Your law; 
13 to give him rest from evil days, until the pit is dug for the wicked. 
14 For the Lord will not cast off His people, neither will He forsake His inheritance; 
15 until righteousness return to judgment, and all the upright in heart shall follow it. Selah. 
16 Who will rise up for me against the transgressors? Or who will stand up with me against the workers of iniquity? 
17 If the Lord had not helped me, my soul would soon have sojourned in Hades. 
18 If I said, “My foot has been moved”; 
19 Your mercy, O Lord, has helped me. O Lord, according to the multitude of the grief in my heart, Your consolation has soothed my soul.  
20 Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with You, which frames mischief by an ordinance? 
21 They will hunt for the soul of the righteous, and condemn innocent blood. 
22 But the Lord was my refuge; and my God the helper of my hope. 
23 And He will recompense to them their iniquity and their wickedness; the Lord our God shall utterly destroy them.                
     
                                                                                    PSALM  95

1 The praise of a Song by David.  
Come, let us rejoice in the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to God our Savior.  
2 Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise to Him with psalms. 
3 For the Lord is a great God, and a great King over all gods; for the Lord will not cast off His people.  
4 For the ends of the earth are in His hands; and the heights of the mountains are His. 
5 For the sea is His, and He made it; and His hands formed the dry land. 
6 Come, let us worship and fall down before Him, and weep before the Lord that made us. 
7 For He is our God; and we are the people of His pasture, and the sheep of His hand. 
8 Today, if you will hear His voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, according to the day of trial in the wilderness;  
9 where your fathers tested Me, and tried Me, and saw My works. 
10 Forty years was I grieved with this generation, and said, “They do always err in their heart, and they have not known My ways. 
11 So I swore in My wrath, they shall not enter into My rest.”                
     
     
     
     PSALM  96

1 When the house was built after the Captivity, a Song of David.  
Sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth. 
2 Sing to the Lord, bless His name; proclaim His salvation from day to day. 
3 Proclaim His glory among the Gentiles, His wonderful works among all people. 
4 For the Lord is great, and greatly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods. 
5 For all the gods of the heathen are demons; but the Lord made the heavens. 
6 Thanksgiving and beauty are before Him; holiness and majesty are in His sanctuary. 
7 Bring to the Lord, you families of the Gentiles, bring to the Lord glory and honor. 
8 Bring to the Lord the glory due His name; take offerings, and go into His courts. 
9 Worship the Lord in His holy court; let all the earth tremble before Him. 
10 Say among the heathen, “The Lord reigns”; for He has established the world so that it shall not be moved; He shall judge the people in righteousness. 
11 Let the heavens rejoice, and the earth exalt; let the sea be moved, and all its fullness. 
12 The plains shall rejoice, and all things in them; then shall all the trees of the wood exalt before the presence of the Lord; 
13 for He comes, for He comes to judge the earth; He shall judge the world in righteousness, and the people with His truth.                
     
     PSALM  97

1 For David, when his land was established.  
The Lord reigns, let the earth exalt, let many islands rejoice. 
2 Clouds and darkness are round about Him; righteousness and judgment are the establishment of His throne. 
3 Fire shall go before Him, and burn up His enemies round about. 
4 His lightnings light the world; the earth saw, and trembled. 
5 The mountains melted like wax at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 
6 The heavens have declared His righteousness, and all the people have seen His glory. 
7 Let all that worship graven images be ashamed, who boast of their idols; worship Him, all you His angels.  
8 Zion heard and rejoiced; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced, because of Your judgments, O Lord. 
9 For You are Lord Most High over all the earth; You are greatly exalted above all gods. 
10 You that love the Lord, hate evil; the Lord preserves the souls of His saints; He shall deliver them from the hand of sinners. 
11 Light has sprung up for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. 
12 Rejoice in the Lord, you righteous; and give thanks for a remembrance of His holiness.               
     
     
     
     PSALM  98

1 A Psalm of David. 
Sing to the Lord a new song; for the Lord has done wonderful works, His right hand, and His holy arm, have wrought salvation for Him. 
2 The Lord has made known His salvation, He has revealed His righteousness in the sight of the nations. 
3 He has remembered His mercy to Jacob, and His truth to the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 
4 Shout to God, all the earth! Sing and rejoice, and sing psalms! 
5 Sing to the Lord with a harp, and with the voice of a psalm. 
6 With trumpets, and with the sound of a horn, make a joyful noise to the Lord before the king. 
7 Let the sea be moved, and all its fullness; the world, and those that dwell in it. 
8 The rivers shall clap their hands together; the mountains shall exalt.  
9 For He has come to judge the earth; He shall judge the world in righteousness, and the nations in uprightness.               
     
     PSALM  99

1 A Psalm of David. 
The Lord reigns; let the people tremble! It is He that sits upon the cherubim, let the earth be moved. 
2 The Lord is great in Zion, and is high above all the people. 
3 Let them give thanks to Your great name; for it is holy, and to be feared! 
4 And the king's honor loves judgment; You have prepared equity, You have established judgment and justice in Jacob.  
5 Exalt the Lord our God, and worship at His footstool; for He is holy. 
6 Moses and Aaron among His priests, and Samuel among them that call upon His name; they called upon the Lord, and He heard them. 
7 He spoke to them in a pillar of cloud; they kept His testimonies, and the ordinances which He gave them. 
8 O Lord our God, You heard them; O God, You became propitious to them, though You took vengeance on all their devices. 
9 Exalt the Lord our God, and worship at His holy mountain; for the Lord our God is holy.                
     
     
     
     
     PSALM  100

1 A Psalm for Thanksgiving.  
Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. 
2 Serve the Lord with gladness; come before His presence with exaltation. 
3 Know that the Lord, He is God; it is He that made us and not we ourselves; we are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. 
4 Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise; give thanks to Him, praise His name. 
5 For the Lord is good, His mercy is everlasting; and His truth endures from generation to generation.             
     
     PSALM   101

1 A Psalm of David. 
I will sing to You, O Lord, of mercy and judgment; I will sing a psalm, 
2 and I will be wise in a blameless way. When will You come to me? I walked in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house. 
3 I have not set before my eyes any unlawful thing; I have hated transgressors. 
4 A perverse heart has not cleaved to me; I have not known an evil man, forasmuch as he turns away from me. 
5 He that secretly speaks against his neighbor have I driven from me; he that is proud in look and insatiable in heart—with him I have not eaten. 
6 My eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me; he that walked in a perfect way, the same ministered to me. 
7 He that is proud did not dwell in the midst of my house; the unjust speaker did not prosper in my sight. 
8 Early did I slay all the sinners of the land, that I might destroy all that work iniquity out of the city of the Lord.                 
     
     PSALM   102
     
1 A Prayer for the Poor; when he is deeply afflicted, and pours out his supplication before the Lord.  
Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come to You. 
2 Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my trouble; incline Your ear to me; in the day when I shall call upon You, speedily hear me. 
3 For my days have vanished like smoke, and my bones have been parched like a stick. 
4 I am blighted like grass, and my heart is dried up; for I have forgotten to eat my bread. 
5 By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones has cleaved to my flesh. 
6 I have become like a pelican of the wilderness; 
7 I have become like an owl in a ruined house. I have watched, and have become as a sparrow dwelling alone on a roof. 
8 All the day long my enemies have reproached me; and they that praised me have sworn against me. 
9 For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping; 
10 because of Your anger and Your wrath; for You have lifted me up, and dashed me down. 
11 My days have declined like a shadow; and I am withered like grass. 
12 But You, O Lord, endure forever, and Your memorial from generation to generation. 
13 You shall arise, and have mercy upon Zion; for it is time to have mercy upon her, for the appointed time has come. 
14 For Your servants have taken pleasure in her stones, and they shall pity her dust. 
15 So the nations shall fear Your name, O Lord, and all kings Your glory. 
16 For the Lord shall build up Zion, and shall appear in His glory.  
17 He has had regard to the prayer of the lowly, and has not despised their petition. 
18 Let this be written for another generation; and the people that shall be created shall praise the Lord. 
19 For He has looked out from the height of His sanctuary; the Lord looked upon the earth from heaven; 
20 to hear the groaning of the fettered ones, to loosen the sons of the slain; 
21 to proclaim the name of the Lord in Zion, and His praise in Jerusalem; 
22 when the people have gathered together, and the kings, to serve the Lord. 
23 He answered him in the way of His strength; tell me the fewness of my days. 
24 Do not take me away in the midst of my days; Your years are through all generations.  
25 In the beginning You, O Lord, laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of Your hands.  
26 They shall perish, but You remain; and they all shall grow old like a garment; and as a vesture shall You fold them, and they shall be changed. 
27 But You are the same, and Your years shall not fail. 
28 The children of Your servants shall dwell securely, and their descendants shall prosper forever.                  
     
     
     PSALM   103
     
1 A Psalm of David.  
Bless the Lord, O my soul; and all that is within me, bless His holy name. 
2 Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all His praises; 
3 who forgives all your transgressions, who heals all your diseases; 
4 who redeems your life from corruption; who crowns you with mercy and compassion; 
5 who satisfies your desire with good things; so that your youth shall be renewed like that of the eagle. 
6 The Lord executes mercy and judgment for all that are injured. 
7 He made known His ways to Moses, and His will to the children of Israel. 
8 The Lord is compassionate and gracious, longsuffering, and full of mercy. 
9 He will not always be angry; neither will He be wrathful forever. 
10 He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor recompensed us according to our iniquities. 
11 For as the heaven is high above the earth, so has the Lord increased His mercy toward them that fear Him. 
12 As far as the east is from the west, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. 
13 As a father pities his children, the Lord pities those who fear Him. 
14 For He knows our frame; He remembers that we are dust. 
15 As for man, his days are like grass; as a flower of the field, so shall he flourish. 
16 For the wind passes over it, and it shall not be; and it shall know its place no more. 
17 But the mercy of the Lord is from generation to generation upon them that fear Him, and His righteousness to the children's children; 
18 to them that keep His covenant, and remember His commandments, to do them. 
19 The Lord has prepared His throne in the heaven; and His kingdom rules over all. 
20 Bless the Lord, all you His angels, mighty in strength, who do His bidding, ready to hearken to the voice of His words. 
21 Bless the Lord, all you His hosts; you ministers of His that do His will. 
22 Bless the Lord, all His works, in every place of His dominion; bless the Lord, O my soul.                
     
     PSALM 104

1 A Psalm of David.  
Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, You are very great; You have clothed Yourself with praise and honor; 
2 who cover Yourself with light as with a garment; spreading out the heaven as a curtain. 
3 Who covers His chambers with waters; who makes the clouds His chariot; who walks on the wings of the wind. 
4 Who makes His angels spirits and His ministers a flaming fire.  
5 Who establishes the earth on her sure foundation; it shall not ever be moved. 
6 The deep, like a garment, is His covering; the waters shall stand on the hills.  
7 At Your rebuke they shall flee; at the voice of Your thunder they shall be alarmed. 
8 They go up to the mountains, and down to the plains, to the place which You founded for them. 
9 You have set a boundary which they shall not pass, neither shall they turn again to cover the earth. 
10 He sends forth His fountains among the valleys; the waters shall run between the mountains. 
11 They shall give drink to all the wild beasts of the field; the wild donkeys shall take of them to quench their thirst. 
12 By them shall the birds of the sky lodge; they shall utter a voice out of the midst of the rocks. 
13 He waters the mountains from His chambers; the earth shall be satisfied with the fruit of Your works. 
14 He makes grass to grow for the cattle, and green herbs for the service of men, to bring bread out of the earth; 
15 and wine makes glad the heart of man, to make his face cheerful with oil; and bread strengthens man's heart. 
16 The trees of the plain shall be full of sap; even the cedars of Lebanon which He has planted. 
17 There the sparrows shall build their nests; and the house of the heron takes the lead among them. 
18 The high mountains are a refuge for the goats, and the rock for the rabbits. 
19 He appointed the moon for seasons; the sun knows its going down. 
20 You made the darkness, and it was night; in it all the wild beasts of the forest will be abroad; 
21 even the young lions roar after their prey, and they seek meat for themselves from God. 
22 The sun arises, and they shall be gathered together, and shall lie down in their dens. 
23 Man shall go forth to his work, and to his labor till evening. 
24 How great are Your works, O Lord! In wisdom have You done them all; the earth is filled with Your creation. 
25 So is this great and wide sea; there are things creeping innumerable, small animals and great. 
26 There go the ships; and this dragon whom You have made to play in it. 
27 All wait upon You, to give them their food in due season. 
28 When You have given it to them, they will gather it; and when You have opened Your hand, they shall all be filled with good. 
29 But when You have turned away Your face, they shall be troubled; You will take away their breath, and they shall fail, and return to their dust. 
30 You shall send forth Your Spirit, and they shall be created; and You shall renew the face of the earth. 
31 Let the glory of the Lord be forever; the Lord shall rejoice in His works; 
32 who looks upon the earth, and makes it tremble; who touches the mountains, and they smoke. 
33 I will sing to the Lord while I live; I will sing praise to my God while I exist. 
34 Let my meditation be sweet to Him, and I will rejoice in the Lord. 
35 Let the sinners fail from off the earth, and transgressors, so that they shall be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul.                    
     
     PSALM  105

1 Alleluia. 
Give thanks to the Lord, and call upon His name; declare His works among the heathen. 
2 Sing to Him, yes, sing praises to Him; tell of all His wonderful works. 
3 Glory in His holy name; let the heart of them that seek the Lord rejoice. 
4 Seek the Lord, and be strengthened; seek His face continually. 
5 Remember His wonderful works that He has done; His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth; 
6 you children of Abraham, His servants, you children of Jacob, His elect. 
7 He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
8 He has remembered His covenant forever, the word which He commanded for a thousand generations; 
9 which He established as a covenant to Abraham, and He remembered His oath to Isaac. 
10 And He established it to Jacob for an ordinance, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant; 
11 saying, “To you will I give the land of Canaan, the line of your inheritance”; 
12 when they were few in number, very few, and sojourners in it. 
13 And they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people. 
14 He allowed no man to wrong them; and He rebuked kings for their sakes; 
15 saying, “Do not touch My anointed ones; and do My prophets no harm.” 
16 Moreover He called for a famine upon the land; He broke the whole support of bread. 
17 He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold for a slave. 
18 They hurt his feet with fetters; his soul came into iron,  
19 until the time that his cause came on; the word of the Lord tried him as fire. 
20 The king sent and loosed him; even the prince of the people, and let him go free. 
21 He made him master over his house, and ruler of all his substance; 
22 to chastise his rulers at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom. 
23 Israel also came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
24 And He increased His people greatly, and made them stronger than their enemies. 
25 And He turned their heart to hate His people, to deal craftily with His servants. 
26 He sent forth Moses His servant, and Aaron whom He had chosen. 
27 He established among them His signs, and His wonders in the land of Ham. 
28 He sent forth darkness, and made it dark; yet they rebelled against His words.  
29 He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. 
30 Their land produced frogs abundantly, in the chambers of their kings. 
31 He spoke, and the dog-fly came, and lice in all their coasts. 
32 He turned their rain into hail, and sent flaming fire in their land. 
33 And He struck their vines and their fig trees; and broke every tree of their coast. 
34 He spoke, and the locust came, and caterpillars innumerable, 
35 and devoured all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of the ground. 
36 He also struck every firstborn of their land, the firstfruits of all their labor. 
37 And He brought them out with silver and gold; and there was not a feeble one among their tribes. 
38 Egypt rejoiced at their departing; for the fear of them fell upon them. 
39 He spread out a cloud for a covering to them, and fire to give them light by night. 
40 They asked, and the quail came, and He satisfied them with the bread of heaven. 
41 He split the rock, and the waters flowed; rivers ran in dry places. 
42 For He remembered His holy word, which He promised to Abraham His servant. 
43 And He brought out His people with exaltation, and His elect with joy; 
44 and He gave them the lands of the heathen; and they inherited the labors of the people; 
45 that they might keep His ordinances, and diligently seek His law.                 
     
     
     
     PSALM 106

1 Alleluia. 
Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
2 Who shall tell the mighty acts of the Lord? Who shall cause all His praises to be heard? 
3 Blessed are they that keep judgment, and do righteousness at all times. 
4 Remember us, O Lord, with the favor You have toward Your people; visit us with Your salvation; 
5 that we may behold the good of Your elect, that we may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, that we may glory with Your inheritance. 
6 We have sinned with our fathers, we have transgressed, we have done unrighteously. 
7 Our fathers in Egypt did not understand Your wonders, and did not remember the multitude of Your mercy; but provoked Him as they went up by the Red Sea. 
8 Yet He saved them for His name's sake, that He might cause His mighty power to be known. 
9 And He rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up; so He led them through the deep as through the wilderness. 
10 And He saved them out of the hand of them that hated them, and redeemed them out of the hand of the enemy. 
11 The water covered those that oppressed them; there was not one of them left. 
12 Then they believed His words, and celebrated His praise. 
13 They made haste, they forgot His works; they did not wait for His counsel. 
14 And they lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the dry land. 
15 And He gave them their request, and sent fullness into their souls. 
16 They provoked Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the holy one of the Lord. 
17 The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and closed upon the congregation of Abiram. 
18 And a fire was kindled in their congregation, and a flame burned up the sinners. 
19 And they made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the graven image, 
20 and they changed their glory into the likeness of a calf that feeds on grass. 
21 They forgot God that saved them, who had done great deeds in Egypt; 
22 wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome things at the Red Sea. 
23 So He said that He would have destroyed them, had not Moses His chosen one stood before Him in the breach, to turn Him away from the fierceness of His anger, so that He should not destroy them. 
24 Moreover they despised the desirable land, and did not believe His word. 
25 And they murmured in their tents; they did not listen to the voice of the Lord. 
26 So He lifted up His hand against them, to cast them down in the wilderness; 
27 and to cast down their descendants among the nations, and to scatter them in the countries. 
28 They were joined also to Baal of Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. And they provoked Him with their deeds; 
29 and destruction was multiplied among them. 
30 Then Phinehas stood up and made atonement, and the plague ceased. 
31 And it was counted to him for righteousness, to all generations forever. 
32 They provoked Him also at the Water of Strife, and Moses was hurt for their sakes; 
33 for they provoked his spirit, and he spoke unadvisedly with his lips.  
34 They did not destroy the nations which the Lord told them to destroy; 
35 but were mingled with the heathen, and learned their works. 
36 And they served their graven images; and it became an offense to them. 
37 And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons, 
38 and shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; and the land was defiled with blood,  
39 and was polluted with their works; and they went a whoring by their own deeds. 
40 So the Lord was very angry with His people, and He abhorred His inheritance. 
41 And He delivered them into the hands of their enemies; and they that hated them ruled over them. 
42 And their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought down under their hands. 
43 Many a time He delivered them; but they provoked Him by their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquities. 
44 You the Lord looked upon their affliction, when You heard their petition. 
45 And He remembered His covenant, and relented according to the multitude of His mercy. 
46 And He caused them to be pitied in the sight of all who carried them captive. 
47 Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the heathen, that we may give thanks to Your holy name, that we may glory in Your praise. 
48 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting; and all the people shall say, “Amen, Amen.”              
     
     PSALM   107
     
1 Alleluia. 
Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
2 Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom He has redeemed from the hand of the enemy; 
3 and gathered them out of the countries, from the east, west, north, and south.  
4 They wandered in the wilderness in a dry land; they found no way to a city of habitation. 
5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. 
6 Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and He delivered them out of their distresses. 
7 And He guided them into a straight path, that they might go to a city of habitation. 
8 Let them acknowledge to the Lord His mercies, and His wonderful works to the children of men. 
9 For He satisfies the empty soul, and fills the hungry soul with good things, 
10 even them that sit in darkness and the shadow of death, fettered in poverty and irons; 
11 because they rebelled against the words of God, and provoked the counsel of the Most High.  
12 So their heart was brought low with troubles; they were weak, and there was no helper. 
13 Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and He saved them out of their distresses. 
14 And He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their chains in pieces. 
15 Let them acknowledge to the Lord His mercies, and His wonders to the children of men. 
16 For He broke to pieces the bronze gates, and crushed the iron bars. 
17 He helped them out of the way of their iniquity; for they were brought low because of their iniquities.  
18 Their soul abhorred all food; and they drew near to the gates of death. 
19 Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and He saved them out of their distresses. 
20 He sent His word, and healed them, and delivered them out of their destructions. 
21 Let them acknowledge to the Lord His mercies, and His wonderful works to the children of men. 
22 And let them offer to Him the sacrifice of praise, and proclaim His works with exaltation. 
23 They that go down to the sea in ships, doing business in many waters; 
24 these have seen the works of the Lord, and His wonders in the deep. 
25 He speaks, and the stormy wind arises, and its waves are lifted up. 
26 They go up to the heavens, and go down to the depths; their soul melts because of troubles. 
27 They are troubled, they stagger as a drunkard, and all their wisdom is swallowed up. 
28 Then they cry to the Lord in their affliction, and He brings them out of their distresses. 
29 And He commands the storm, and it is calmed into a gentle breeze, and its waves are still. 
30 And they are glad, because they are quiet; and He guides them to their desired haven. 
31 Let them acknowledge to the Lord His mercies, and His wonderful works to the children of men. 
32 Let them exalt Him in the congregation of the people, and praise Him in the seat of the elders. 
33 He turns rivers into a desert, and streams of water into a dry land;  
34 a fruitful land into saltness, for the wickedness of them that dwell in it. 
35 He turns a wilderness into pools of water, and a dry land into streams of water. 
36 And there He causes the hungry to dwell, and they establish for themselves cities of habitation. 
37 And they sow fields, and plant vineyards, and they yield a fruitful harvest. 
38 And He blesses them, and they multiply exceedingly, and He does not diminish the number of their cattle. 
39 Again they become few, and are brought low, by the pressure of evils and pain. 
40 Contempt is poured upon their princes, and He causes them to wander in a desert, and in a trackless land. 
41 But He helps the poor out of poverty, and makes him families as a flock. 
42 The upright shall see and rejoice; and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. 
43 Who is wise, and will observe these things, and understand the mercies of the Lord?                
     
     
     
     PSALM  108
     
1 A Psalm of David, a Song.  
O God, my heart is ready, my heart is ready; I will sing and sing psalms with my glory. 
2 Awake, psaltery and harp; I will awake early. 
3 I will give thanks to You, O Lord, among the people; I will sing praises to You among the Gentiles. 
4 For Your mercy is great above the heavens, and Your truth reaches to the clouds. 
5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; and Your glory above all the earth. 
6 That Your beloved may be delivered; save with Your right hand, and hear me. God has spoken in His sanctuary. 
7 I will be exalted, and will divide Shechem, and will measure out the Valley of Tents. 
8 Gilead is Mine; and Manasseh is Mine; and Ephraim is the helmet for My head; Judah is My king; 
9 Moab is the caldron of My hope; over Edom will I cast My sandal; the Philistines are made subject to Me. 
10 Who will bring me into the fortified city? Or who will lead me to Edom? 
11 Will not You, O God, who have rejected us? And will not You, O God, go forth with our armies? 
12 Give us help from tribulation; for vain is the help of man. 
13 Through God we shall do valiantly; and He will tread down our enemies.                 
     
     PSALM   109

1 A Psalm of David.  
O God, do not pass over my praise in silence; 
2 for the mouth of the sinner and the mouth of the crafty have been opened against me; they have spoken against me with a crafty tongue. 
3 And they have surrounded me with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. 
4 Instead of loving me, they falsely accused me; but I continued to pray.  
5 And they rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 
6 Set a sinner against him; and let an accuser stand at his right hand.  
7 When he is judged, let him go forth condemned; and let his prayer become sin. 
8 Let his days be few; and let another take his office of overseer.  
9 Let his children be orphans, and his wife a widow. 
10 Let his children wander without a dwelling place and beg; let them be cast out of their habitations. 
11 Let his creditor exact all that belongs to him; and let strangers spoil his labors. 
12 Let him have no helper; neither let there be anyone to have compassion on his fatherless children. 
13 Let his children be given up to utter destruction; in one generation let his name be blotted out. 
14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
15 Let them be before the Lord continually; and let their memorial be blotted out from the earth. 
16 Because he did not remember to show mercy, but persecuted the needy and poor man, that he might even slay the broken in heart. 
17 He loved cursing also, and it shall come upon him; and he did not take pleasure in blessing, so it shall be removed far from him. 
18 Yes, he put on cursing as a garment, and it has come as water into his bowels, and as oil into his bones. 
19 Let it be to him as a garment which he puts on, and as a girdle with which he girds himself continually. 
20 This is the dealing of the Lord with those who falsely accuse me, and of them that speak evil against my soul. 
21 But You, O Lord, my Lord, deal mercifully with me, for Your name's sake; for Your mercy is good. 
22 Deliver me, for I am poor and needy; and my heart is troubled within me. 
23 I am removed as a shadow in its going down; I am tossed up and down like locusts. 
24 My knees are weakened through fasting, and my flesh is feeble from lack of fatness. 
25 I became also a reproach to them, when they saw me they shook their heads. 
26 Help me, O Lord my God; and save me according to Your mercy. 
27 And let them know that this is Your hand, and that You, O Lord, have done it. 
28 Let them curse, but You shall bless; let them that rise up against me be ashamed, but let Your servant rejoice. 
29 Let those that falsely accuse me be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle. 
30 I will give thanks to the Lord abundantly with my mouth; and in the midst of many I will praise Him. 
31 For He stood on the right hand of the poor, to save me from them that persecute my soul.                
     
     PSALM  110

1 A Psalm of David.  
The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies Your footstool.”  
2 The Lord shall send out the rod of Your strength out of Zion; rule in the midst of Your enemies! 
3 With You is dominion in the day of Your power, in the splendors of Your saints; I have begotten You from the womb before the morning.  
4 The Lord has sworn and will not relent, “You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.” 
5 The Lord at Your right hand has dashed in pieces kings in the day of His wrath. 
6 He shall judge among the nations, He shall fill up the number of corpses, He shall crush the heads of many on the earth. 
7 He shall drink of the brook in the way; therefore shall He lift up the head.                
     
                                                                          
    
                                                                    PSALM   111
     
1 Alleluia. 
I will give You thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart, in the council of the upright, and in the congregation. 
2 The works of the Lord are great, sought out according to all His will.  
3 His work is worthy of thanksgiving and honor; and His righteousness endures forever and ever. 
4 He has caused His wonderful works to be remembered; the Lord is merciful and compassionate. 
5 He has given food to them that fear Him; He will remember His covenant forever. 
6 He has declared to His people the power of His works, to give them the inheritance of the heathen. 
7 The works of His hands are truth and judgment; all His commandments are sure; 
8 established forever and ever, done in truth and uprightness. 
9 He sent redemption to His people; He commanded His covenant forever; holy and fearful is His name. 
10 The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and all that act accordingly have a good understanding; His praise endures forever and ever.                    
     
                                                                                  PSALM 112

1 Alleluia. 
Blessed is the man who fears the Lord; he will delight greatly in His commandments. 
2 His descendants will be mighty in the earth; the generation of the upright will be blessed. 
3 Glory and riches will be in his house; and his righteousness endures forevermore. 
4 To the upright light has sprung up in darkness; he is pitiful, and merciful, and righteous. 
5 The good man is he that pities and lends; he will direct his affairs with judgment. 
6 For he will not be moved forever; the righteous will be in everlasting remembrance. 
7 He will not be afraid of any evil report; his heart is ready to trust in the Lord. 
8 His heart is established, he will not fear, till he sees his desire upon his enemies. 
9 He has dispersed abroad; he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever; his horn shall be exalted with honor.  
10 The sinner will see and be angry, he will gnash his teeth, and consume away; the desire of the sinner will perish.                    
     
     
     
     PSALM  113

1 Alleluia. 
Praise the Lord, you servants of His, praise the name of the Lord. 
2 Let the name of the Lord be blessed, now and forevermore.  
3 From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. 
4 The Lord is high above all the nations; His glory is above the heavens. 
5 Who is as the Lord our God? Who dwells in the high places, 
6 and yet looks upon the low things in heaven, and on the earth; 
7 who lifts up the poor from the earth, and raises up the needy from the dunghill; 
8 to set him with princes, even with the princes of His people; 
9 who settles the barren woman in a house, as a mother rejoicing over children.                
     
                                                                            PSALM  114

1 Alleluia. 
At the going forth of Israel from Egypt, of the house of Jacob from a barbarous people, 
2 Judah became His sanctuary, and Israel His dominion.  
3 The sea saw and fled; Jordan was turned back. 
4 The mountains skipped like rams, and the hills like lambs. 
5 What ailed you, O sea, that you fled? And you, O Jordan, that you were turned back? 
6 You mountains, that you skipped like rams, and you hills, like lambs? 
7 The earth trembled at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob; 
8 who turned the rock into pools of water, and the flint into fountains of water.                  
     
                                                                        PSALM   115

1 Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to Your name give glory, because of Your mercy and Your truth; 
2 lest at any time the nations should say, “Where is their God?” 
3 But our God has done in heaven and on earth, whatsoever He has pleased. 
4 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of men's hands. 
5 They have a mouth, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see;  
6 they have ears, but they cannot hear; they have noses, but they cannot smell; 
7 they have hands, but they cannot handle; they have feet, but they cannot walk; they cannot speak through their mouth. 
8 Let those that make them become like them, and all who trust in them. 
9 The house of Israel trusts in the Lord; He is their helper and defender. 
10 The house of Aaron trusts in the Lord; He is their helper and defender. 
11 They that fear the Lord trust in the Lord; He is their helper and defender. 
12 The Lord has remembered us, and blessed us; He has blessed the house of Israel, He has blessed the house of Aaron. 
13 He has blessed them that fear the Lord, both small and great. 
14 May the Lord add blessings to you and to your children.  
15 Blessed are you of the Lord, who made the heaven and the earth. 
16 The heaven of heavens belongs to the Lord; but He has given the earth to the sons of men.  
17 The dead shall not praise You, O Lord, nor any that go down to Hades. 18 But we, the living, will bless the Lord, now and forever.                
     
                                                                    PSALM   116

1 Alleluia. 
I am well pleased, because the Lord will hearken to the voice of my supplication. 
2 Because He has inclined His ear to me, therefore will I call upon Him while I live. 
3 The pangs of death compassed me; the dangers of hell found me; I found affliction and sorrow. 
4 Then I called on the name of the Lord—O Lord, deliver my soul. 
5 The Lord is merciful and righteous; behold, our God has pity. 
6 The Lord preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He delivered me.  
7 Return to your rest, O my soul; for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. 
8 For He has delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from falling. 
9 I shall be well-pleasing before the Lord in the land of the living. Alleluia. 
10 I believed, therefore I have spoken; but I was greatly afflicted.  
11 And I said in my amazement, “Every man is a liar.” 
12 What shall I render to the Lord for all the things in which He has rewarded me? 
13 I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the Lord. 
14 I will pay my vows to the Lord, in the presence of all His people. 
15 Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints. 
16 O Lord, I am Your servant; I am Your servant, and the son of Your maid; You have burst my bonds. 
17 I will offer to You the sacrifice of praise, and will call upon the name of the Lord. 
18 I will pay my vows unto the Lord, in the presence of all His people, 
19 in the courts of the Lord's house, in the midst of you, O Jerusalem.                  
 
                                                                   PSALM  117
     
1 Alleluia. 
Praise the Lord, all you nations; praise Him, all you peoples.  
2 For His mercy has been abundant toward us; and the truth of the Lord endures forever.                  
     
                                                                  PSALM  118
     
1 Alleluia. 
Give thanks to the Lord; for He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
2 Let now the house of Israel say that He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
3 Let now the house of Aaron say that He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
4 Let now all that fear the Lord say that He is good; for His mercy endures forever. 
5 I called on the Lord out of affliction; and He hearkened to me, and brought me into a wide place. 
6 The Lord is my helper; and I will not fear, what shall man do to me?  
7 The Lord is my helper; and I shall see my desire upon my enemies. 
8 It is better to trust in the Lord than to trust in man. 
9 It is better to hope in the Lord, than to hope in princes. 
10 All the nations surrounded me; but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. 
11 They completely compassed me about; but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. 
12 They compassed me about as bees do a honeycomb, and they burst into flame as fire among thorns; but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. 
13 I was thrust, and sorely shaken, that I might fall; but the Lord helped me. 
14 The Lord is my strength and my song, and has become my salvation. 
15 The voice of exaltation and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous; the right hand of the Lord has done mightily. 
16 The right hand of the Lord has exalted me; the right hand of the Lord has done powerfully. 
17 I shall not die, but live, and recount the works of the Lord. 
18 The Lord has sorely chastened me; but He has not given me up to death. 
19 Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will go into them, and give praise to the Lord. 
20 This is the gate of the Lord; the righteous shall enter by it. 
21 I will give thanks to You; because You have heard me, and have become my salvation. 
22 The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone.  
23 This was the Lord’s doing; and it is marvelous in our eyes. 
24 This is the day that the Lord has made; let us exalt and rejoice in it. 
25 O Lord, save now; O Lord, send now prosperity. 
26 Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord; we have blessed you out of the house of the Lord.  
27 God is the Lord, and He has shined upon us; celebrate the feast with thick branches, binding the victims even to the horns of the altar.  
28 You are my God, and I will give You thanks; You are my God, and I will exalt You. I will give thanks to You, for You have heard me, and have become my salvation. 
29 Give thanks to the Lord; for He is good; for His mercy endures forever!               

                                                              PSALM 119

1 Alleluia. 
Blessed are the blameless in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord. 
2 Blessed are those who search out His testimonies; they will diligently seek Him with the whole heart. 
3 For those who work iniquity have not walked in His ways. 
4 You have commanded us diligently to keep Your precepts. 
5 O that my ways were directed to keep Your statutes. 
6 Then will I not be ashamed, when I have respect to all Your commandments. 
7 I will give You thanks with uprightness of heart, when I have learned the judgments of Your righteousness. 
8 I will keep Your statutes; O do not utterly forsake me! 
9 How will a young man direct his way? By keeping Your words. 
10 With my whole heart have I diligently sought You; do not cast me away from Your commandments. 
11 I have hidden Your oracles in my heart, that I might not sin against You. 
12 Blessed are You, O Lord; teach me Your statutes. 
13 With my lips have I declared all the judgments of Your mouth. 
14 I have delighted in the way of Your testimonies, as much as in all riches. 
15 I will meditate on Your commandments, and consider Your ways. 
16 I will meditate on Your statutes; I will not forget Your words. 
17 Render a recompense to Your servant; so shall I live, and keep Your words. 
18 Unveil my eyes, and I shall perceive the wondrous things of Your law. 
19 I am a stranger in the earth; do not hide Your commandments from me. 
20 My soul has longed exceedingly for Your judgments at all times. 
21 You have rebuked the proud; cursed are those who turn aside from Your commandments. 
22 Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have sought out Your testimonies. 
23 For princes sat and spoke against me; but Your servant was meditating on Your statutes. 
24 For Your testimonies are my meditation, and Your statutes are my counselors. 
25 My soul has cleaved to the ground; revive me according to Your word. 
26 I declared my ways, and You heard me; teach me Your statutes. 
27 Instruct me in the ways of Your statutes; and I will meditate on Your wondrous works. 
28 My soul has slumbered for sorrow; strengthen me with Your words. 
29 Remove from me the way of iniquity; and be merciful to me by Your law.  
30 I have chosen the way of truth; and have not forgotten Your judgments. 
31 I have cleaved to Your testimonies, O Lord; do not put me to shame. 
32 I ran the way of Your commandments, when You enlarged my heart. 
33 Teach me, O Lord, the way of Your statutes, and I will seek it out continually.  
34 Instruct me, and I will search out Your law, and will keep it with my whole heart. 
35 Guide me in the path of Your commandments; for I have delighted in it. 
36 Incline my heart to Your testimonies, and not to covetousness. 
37 Turn away my eyes that I may not behold vanity; revive me in Your way. 
38 Confirm Your oracle to Your servant, that he may fear You. 
39 Take away my reproach which I have feared; for Your judgments are good. 
40 Behold, I have desired Your commandments; revive me in Your righteousness. 
41 And let Your mercy come upon me, O Lord; even Your salvation, according to Your word. 
42 And so I shall render an answer to them that reproach me; for I have trusted in Your words. 
43 And do not take the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in Your judgments. 
44 So shall I keep Your law continually, even forever and ever. 
45 I walked also at large; for I sought out Your commandments. 
46 And I spoke of Your testimonies before kings, and was not ashamed. 
47 And I meditated on Your commandments, which I loved exceedingly.  
48 And I lifted up my hands to Your commandments which I loved; and I meditated in Your statutes. 
49 Remember Your words to Your servant, upon which You have made me hope. 
50 This has comforted me in my affliction; for Your word has revived me.
51 The proud have transgressed exceedingly; but I did not swerve from Your law. 
52 I remembered Your judgment of old, O Lord; and was comforted. 
53 Despair took hold upon me, because of the sinners who forsake Your law. 
54 Your statutes were my sons in the place of my sojourning. 
55 I remembered Your name, O Lord, in the night, and kept Your law. 
56 This I had, because I diligently sought Your statutes. 
57 You are my portion, O Lord; I said that I would keep Your law. 
58 I sought out Your favor with my whole heart; have mercy upon me according to Your word.  
59 I thought on Your ways, and turned my feet to Your testimonies. 
60 I prepared myself, (and was not terrified) to keep Your commandments. 
61 The snares of sinners entangled me; but I did not forget Your law. 
62 At midnight I arose, to give thanks to You for the judgments of Your righteousness. 
63 I am a companion of all them that fear You, and of them that keep Your commandments. 
64 O Lord, the earth is full of Your mercy; teach me Your statutes. 
65 You have wrought kindly with Your servant, O Lord, according to Your word. 
66 Teach me kindness, instruction, and knowledge; for I have believed Your commandments. 
67 Before I was afflicted I transgressed; therefore have I kept Your word. 
68 Good are You, O Lord; therefore in Your goodness teach me Your statutes. 
69 The injustice of the proud has been multiplied against me; but I will search out Your commandments with all my heart. 
70 Their heart has been curdled like milk; but I have meditated on Your law. 
71 It is good for me that You have afflicted me, that I might learn Your statutes. 
72 The law of Your mouth is better to me than much gold and silver. 
73 Your hands have made me, and fashioned me; instruct me, that I may learn Your commandments. 
74 Those who fear You will see me and rejoice; for I have hoped in Your words. 
75 I know, O Lord, that Your judgments are righteousness, and that You in truthfulness have afflicted me. 
76 Let, I pray, Your mercy be to comfort me, according to Your word to Your servant. 
77 Let Your compassions come to me, that I may live; for Your law is my meditation. 
78 Let the proud be ashamed; for they transgressed against me unjustly; but I will meditate on Your commandments. 
79 Let those who fear You, and those that know Your testimonies, turn to me. 
80 Let my heart be blameless regarding Your statutes, that I may not be ashamed. 
81 My soul faints for Your salvation; I have hoped in Your words. 
82 My eyes failed from searching for Your word, saying, “When will You comfort me?” 
83 For I have become as a bottle in the frost; yet I have not forgotten Your statutes. 
84 How many are the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment for me on them that persecute me? 
85 Transgressors told me idle tales; but not according to Your law, O Lord. 
86 All Your commandments are truth; they persecuted me unjustly; help me! 
87 They nearly made an end of me in the earth; but I did not forsake Your commandments. 
88 Revive me according to Your mercy; so shall I keep the testimonies of Your mouth. 
89 Your word, O Lord, abides in heaven forever. 
90 Your truth endures to all generations; You have founded the earth, and it abides. 
91 The day continues by Your arrangement; for all things are Your servants. 
92 Were it not that Your law is my meditation, then I should have perished in my affliction. 
93 I will never forget Your statutes; for with them You have revived me. 
94 I am Yours, save me; for I have sought out Your statutes. 
95 Sinners laid wait for me to destroy me; but I understood Your testimonies. 
96 I have seen an end of all perfection; but Your commandment is very broad. 
97 How I have loved Your law, O Lord! It is my meditation all the day. 
98 You have made me wiser than my enemies in Your commandment; for it is mine forever. 
99 I have more understanding than all my teachers; for Your testimonies are my meditation. 
100 I understand more than the aged; because I have sought out Your commandments. 
101 I have kept back my feet from every evil way, that I might keep Your words. 
102 I have not departed from Your judgments; for You have instructed me.  
103 How sweet are Your oracles to my taste! More so than honey to my mouth! 
104 I gain understanding by Your commandments; therefore I have hated every way of unrighteousness. 
105 Your law is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my paths. 
106 I have sworn and determined to keep the judgments of Your righteousness. 
107 I have been very greatly afflicted, O Lord; revive me, according to Your word. 
108 Accept, O Lord, the freewill offerings of my mouth, and teach me Your judgments. 
109 My soul is continually in Your hands; and I have not forgotten Your law.  
110 Sinners spread a snare for me; but I did not err from Your commandments. 
111 I have inherited Your testimonies forever; for they are the joy of my heart. 
112 I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes forever, in return for Your mercies.  
113 I have hated transgressors; but I have loved Your law. 
114 You are my helper and my supporter; I have hoped in Your words. 
115 Depart from me, You evildoers; for I will search out the commandments of my God. 
116 Uphold me according to Your word, and revive me; and make me not ashamed of my hope. 
117 Help me, and I shall be saved; and I will meditate on Your statutes continually. 
118 You have rejected all that depart from Your statutes; for their inner thoughts are unrighteousness. 
119 I have reckoned all the sinners of the earth as transgressors; therefore have I loved Your testimonies. 
120 Penetrate my flesh with Your fear; for I am afraid of Your judgments. 
121 I have done judgment and justice; deliver me not up to them that injure me. 
122 Receive Your servant for good; let not the proud accuse me falsely. 
123 My eyes have failed for Your salvation, and for the word of Your righteousness. 
124 Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy, and teach me Your statutes. 
125 I am Your servant; instruct me, and I shall know Your testimonies. 
126 It is time for the Lord to work; they have utterly broken Your law. 
127 Therefore have I loved Your commandments more than gold, or topaz. 
128 Therefore I directed myself according to all Your commandments; I have hated every unjust way. 
129 Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul has sought them out. 
130 The manifestation of Your words will enlighten, and instruct the simple. 
131 I opened my mouth, and drew breath; for I earnestly longed after Your commandments. 
132 Look upon me and have mercy upon me, after the manner of them that love Your name. 
133 Order my steps according to Your word; and do not let any iniquity have dominion over me. 
134 Deliver me from the false accusation of men; so will I keep Your commandments. 
135 Cause Your face to shine upon Your servant; and teach me Your statutes. 
136 My eyes have been bathed in streams of water, because I did not keep Your law. 
137 Righteous are You, O Lord, and upright are Your judgments. 
138 You have commanded righteousness and perfect truth, as Your testimonies. 
139 Your zeal has quite wasted me; because my enemies have forgotten Your words. 
140 Your word has been very fully tried; and Your servant loves it. 
141 I am young and despised; yet I have not forgotten Your statutes. 
142 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Your law is truth. 
143 Afflictions and distresses found me; but Your commandments were my meditation. 
144 Your testimonies are an everlasting righteousness; instruct me, and I shall live. 
145 I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O Lord; I will search out Your statutes. 
146 I cried to You; save me, and I will keep Your testimonies. 
147 I arose before the dawn, and cried; I hoped in Your words. 
148 My eyes prevented the dawn, that I might meditate on Your oracles. 
149 Hear my voice, O Lord, according to Your mercy; revive me according to Your judgment. 
150 They have drawn near who persecuted me unlawfully; and they are far removed from Your law. 
151 You are near, O Lord; and all Your ways are truth.  
152 I have known of old concerning Your testimonies, that You have founded them forever.  
153 Look upon my affliction, and rescue me; for I have not forgotten Your law. 
154 Plead my cause, and ransom me; revive me because of Your word. 
155 Salvation is far from sinners; for they have not searched out Your statutes. 
156 Your mercies, O Lord, are many; revive me according to Your judgment. 
157 Many are they that persecute me and oppress me; but I have not declined from Your testimonies. 
158 I beheld men acting foolishly, and I pined away; for they did not keep Your oracles. 
159 Behold, I have loved Your commandments, O Lord; revive me in Your mercy. 
160 The beginning of Your words is truth; and all the judgments of Your righteousness endure forever. 
161 Princes persecuted me without a cause, but my heart feared because of Your words. 
162 I will rejoice because of Your oracles, as one that finds much spoil. 
163 I hate and abhor unrighteousness; but I love Your law. 
164 Seven times in a day have I praised You because of the judgments of Your righteousness. 
165 Great peace have those who love Your law, and nothing shall offend them. 
166 I have waited for Your salvation, O Lord, and have loved Your commandments. 
167 My soul has kept Your testimonies, and loved them exceedingly. 
168 I have kept Your commandments and Your testimonies; for all my ways are before You, O Lord. 
169 Let my supplication come near before You, O Lord; instruct me according to Your oracle. 
170 Let my petition come in before You, O Lord; deliver me according to Your word. 
171 Let my lips utter a hymn, when You shall have taught me Your statutes. 
172 Let my tongue utter Your oracles; for all Your commandments are righteous. 
173 Let Your hand be prompt to save me; for I have chosen Your commandments. 
174 I have longed after Your salvation, O Lord; and Your law is my meditation. 
175 My soul shall live, and shall praise You; and Your judgments shall help me. 
176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Your servant; for I have not forgotten Your commandments.             
     
     
     PSALM    120

1 A Song of Degrees. 
In my affliction I cried to the Lord, and He listened to me. 
2 Deliver my soul, O Lord, from unjust lips, and from a deceitful tongue. 
3 What should be given to you, and what should be added to you, for your crafty tongue? 
4 Sharpened weapons of the mighty, with coals of the desert. 
5 Woe is me, that my sojourning is prolonged; I have dwelled among the tents of Kedar.  
6 My soul has long been a sojourner; 
7 I was peaceable among them that hated peace; when I spoke to them, they warred against me without a cause.                 
     
     PSALM   121

1 A Song of Degrees. 
I lifted up my eyes to the mountains—from where my help shall come.  
2 My help shall come from the Lord, who made heaven and earth.  
3 Let not your foot be moved; and let not your keeper slumber.  
4 Behold, He that keeps Israel shall not slumber nor sleep.  
5 The Lord shall keep you; the Lord is your shelter upon your right hand.  
6 The sun shall not burn you by day, neither the moon by night.  
7 May the Lord preserve you from all evil; the Lord shall keep your soul.  
8 The Lord shall keep your coming in, and your going out, from this time forth and forever.                               
     
     
     
     PSALM 122

1 A Song of Degrees. 
I was glad when they said to me, “Let us go into the house of the Lord.”  
2 Our feet stood in your courts, O Jerusalem.  
3 Jerusalem is built as a city whose fellowship is complete.  
4 For from there the tribes went up, the tribes of the Lord, as a testimony for Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord.  
5 For there are set thrones for judgment, even thrones for the house of David.  
6 Pray now for the peace of Jerusalem: and let there be prosperity to them that love you.  
7 Let peace, I pray, be within your host, and prosperity in your palaces.   
8 For the sake of my brothers and my neighbors, I have indeed spoken peace concerning you.  
9 Because of the house of the Lord our God, I have diligently sought your good.                 
     
     PSALM  123

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Unto You who dwells in heaven have I lifted up my eyes.   
2 Behold, as the eyes of servants are directed to the hands of their masters, and as the eyes of a maidservant to the hands of her mistress; so our eyes are directed to the Lord our God, until He has mercy upon us.   
3 Have pity upon us, O Lord, have pity upon us; for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.   
4 For our soul has been exceedingly filled with it: let the reproach be to them that are at ease, and contempt to the proud.                 
     
     PSALM  124
     
1 A Song of Degrees. 
If it had not been that the Lord was among us, let Israel now say;  
2 if it had not been that the Lord was among us, when men rose up against us;  
3 verily they would have swallowed us up alive, when their wrath was kindled against us:  
4 verily the water would have drowned us, our soul would have gone under the torrent.   
5 Yes, our soul would have gone under the overwhelming water.   
6 Blessed be the Lord, who has not given us for a prey to their teeth.  
7 Our soul has been delivered as a sparrow from the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are delivered.  
8 Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.                 
     
     PSALM  125

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Those who trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion: he that dwells in Jerusalem shall never be moved.  
2 The mountains are round about her, and so the Lord is round about His people, from this time forth and forever.  
3 For the Lord will not allow the rod of sinners to be upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous should stretch forth their hands to iniquity.  
4 Do good, O Lord, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in heart.  
5 But those who turn aside to crooked ways the Lord will lead away with the workers of iniquity; but peace shall be upon Israel.                 
     
     
     PSALM  126

1 A Song of Degrees. 
When the Lord turned the captivity of Zion, we became as those that are comforted.  
2 Then was our mouth filled with joy, and our tongue with exaltation; then would they say among the Gentiles, “The Lord has done great things among them.”  
3 The Lord has done great things for us, we became joyful.  
4 Turn, O Lord, our captivity, as the streams in the south.   
5 Those who sow in tears shall reap in joy.  
6 They went on and wept as they cast their seeds; but they shall surely come with exaltation, bringing their sheaves with them.                                
     
                                                                                    PSALM 127

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Except the Lord build the house, those who build labor in vain: except the Lord keep the city, the watchman watches in vain.  
2 It is vain for you to rise up early; you rise up after resting, you that eat the bread of grief; while He gives sleep to His beloved.  
3 Behold, the inheritance of the Lord, children, the reward of the fruit of the womb.  
4 As arrows in the hand of a mighty man; so are the children of those who were outcasts.  
5 Blessed is the man who shall satisfy his desire with them; they shall not be ashamed when they shall speak to their enemies in the gates.                
     
                                                                             PSALM 128

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Blessed are all they that fear the Lord; who walk in His ways.  
2 You shall eat the labors of your hands. Blessed are you, and it shall be well with you.  
3 Your wife shall be as a fruitful vine on the sides of your house; your children as young olive-plants round about your table.  
4 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed that fears the Lord.  
5 May the Lord bless you out of Zion; and may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life.  
6 And may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel.                 
     
                                                                              PSALM  129

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Many a time have they warred against me from my youth, let Israel now say:   
2 Many a time have they warred against me from my youth: and yet they did not prevail against me.  
3 The sinners wrought upon my back: they prolonged their iniquity.  
4 The righteous Lord has cut in pieces the necks of sinners.  
5 Let all that hate Zion be put to shame and turned back.  
6 Let them be as the grass of the housetops, which withers before it is plucked up.  
7 Wherewith the reaper does not fill his hand, nor he that makes up the sheaves, his bosom.  
8 Neither do they that go by say, “The blessing of the Lord be upon you; we have blessed you in the name of the Lord.”                   
     
     
     
       PSALM  130
     
1 A Song of Degrees. 
Out of the depths have I cried to You, O Lord.  
2 O Lord, hear my voice; let Your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication.  
3 If You, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?  
4 For with You is forgiveness;  
5 for Your name's sake have I waited for You, O Lord, my soul has waited for Your word.   
6 My soul has hoped in the Lord; from the morning watch till night.  
7 Let Israel hope in the Lord: for with the Lord is mercy, and with Him is abundant redemption.  
8 And He shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.                  
     
     PSALM   131

1 A Song of Degrees. 
O Lord, my heart is not exalted, neither have my eyes been haughtily raised: neither have I exercised myself in great matters, nor in things too wonderful for me.  
2 I shall have sinned if I have not been humble, but have exalted my soul; according to the relation of a weaned child to his mother, so will You recompense my soul.  
3 Let Israel hope in the Lord, from this time forth and forever.                   
     
     PSALM 132

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Lord, remember David, and all his meekness:  
2 how he swore to the Lord, and vowed to the God of Jacob, saying,   
3 “I will not go into the tabernacle of my house; I will not go up to the couch of my bed;   
4 I will not give sleep to my eyes, nor slumber to my eyelids, nor rest to my temples,  
5 until I find a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.”  
6 Behold, we heard of it in Ephratha; we found it in the fields of the wood.  
7 Let us enter into His tabernacles: let us worship at His footstool.  
8 Arise, O Lord, into Your rest; You, and the ark of Your holiness.  
9 Your priests shall clothe themselves with righteousness; and Your saints shall rejoice.  
10 For the sake of Your servant David do not turn away the face of Your Anointed.  
11 The Lord has sworn in truth to David, and He will not annul it, saying, “Of the fruit of your body will I set a king upon your throne.  
12 If your children will keep My covenant, and these My testimonies which I shall teach them, their children also shall sit upon your throne forever.”  
13 For the Lord has elected Zion, He has chosen her for a habitation for Himself, saying,  
14  “This is My rest forever: here will I dwell; for I have chosen it.  
15 I will surely bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.  
16 I will clothe her priests with salvation; and her saints shall greatly rejoice.  
17 There will I cause to spring up a horn to David: I have prepared a lamp for My Anointed.  
18 His enemies will I clothe with shame; but upon Himself shall My holiness flourish.”                   
     
                                                                        PSALM 133
     
1 A Song of Degrees. 
See now! What is so good, or what so pleasant, as for brothers to dwell together?  
2 It is as ointment on the head, that ran down to the beard, even the beard of Aaron; that ran down to the fringe of his clothing.  
3 As the dew of Hermon that comes down on the mountains of Zion; for there, the Lord has commanded the blessing, even life forevermore.                    
     
                                                            PSALM   134

1 A Song of Degrees. 
Behold now, bless the Lord, all the servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God.  
2 Lift up your hands by night in the sanctuaries, and bless the Lord.  
3 May the Lord, who made heaven and earth, bless you out of Zion.                           
     
                                                                         PSALM  135

1 Alleluia. 
Praise the name of the Lord; praise the Lord, you His servants,  
2 who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God.  
3 Praise the Lord; for the Lord is good: sing praises to His name; for it is good.  4 For the Lord has chosen Jacob for Himself, and Israel for His peculiar treasure.  
5 For I know that the Lord is great, and our Lord is above all gods;  
6 all that the Lord willed, He did in heaven, and on the earth, in the sea, and in all the deep.  
7 Who brings up clouds from the extremity of the earth; He has made lightnings for the rain; He brings the winds out of His treasures.  
8 Who struck the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.  
9 He sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his servants.  
10 Who struck many nations, and slew mighty kings;  
11 Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,  
12 and gave their land for an inheritance, an inheritance to Israel His people.  
13 O Lord, Your name endures forever, and Your memorial to all generations.  
14 For the Lord shall judge His people, and comfort Himself concerning His servants.  
15 The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the works of men's hands.  
16 They have a mouth, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see;  
17 they have ears, but they cannot hear; for there is no breath in their mouth.  
18 Let those who make them be made like them; and all those who trust in them.  
19 O house of Israel, bless the Lord: O house of Aaron, bless the Lord:  
20 O house of Levi, bless the Lord: you that fear the Lord, bless the Lord.  
21 Blessed in Zion is the Lord, who dwells in Jerusalem.                  
     
     PSALM   136

1 Alleluia. 
Give thanks to the Lord: for He is good: for His mercy endures forever.   
2 Give thanks to the God of gods; for His mercy endures forever.  
3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords: for His mercy endures forever.  
4 To Him who alone has wrought great wonders; for His mercy endures forever.  
5 To Him who made the heavens by understanding; for His mercy endures forever.  
6 To Him who established the earth on the waters; for His mercy endures forever.  
7 To Him who alone made great lights; for His mercy endures forever.  
8 The sun to rule by day; for His mercy endures forever.  
9 The moon and the stars to rule the night; for His mercy endures forever.  
10 To Him who struck Egypt with their firstborn; for His mercy endures forever.  
11 And brought Israel out of the midst of them; for His mercy endures forever;  
12 with a strong hand, and an outstretched arm; for His mercy endures forever.  
13 To Him who parted the Red Sea; for His mercy endures forever;  
14 and brought Israel through the midst of it; for His mercy endures forever;  
15 and overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea; for His mercy endures forever.  
16 To Him who led His people through the wilderness; for His mercy endures forever.  
17 To Him who struck down great kings; for His mercy endures forever; 
18 and slew mighty kings; for His mercy endures forever:  
19 Sihon king of the Amorites; for His mercy endures forever;  
20 and Og king of Bashan; for His mercy endures forever;  
21 and gave their land for an inheritance; for His mercy endures forever;  
22 even an inheritance to Israel His servant; for His mercy endures forever.  
23 For the Lord remembered us in our low estate; for His mercy endures forever;  
24 and redeemed us from our enemies; for His mercy endures forever.  
25 Who gives food to all flesh; for His mercy endures forever.  
26 Give thanks to the God of heaven; for His mercy endures forever.                   
     
     PSALM  137

1 For David, A Psalm of Jeremiah. 
By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat; and wept when we remembered Zion.  
2 We hung our harps on the willows in the midst of it.  
3 For there they that had taken us captive asked of us the words of a song; and they that had carried us away asked a hymn, saying, “Sing us one of the songs of Zion.”  
4 How should we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?  
5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill.  
6 May my tongue cleave to my throat, if I do not remember you; if I do not prefer Jerusalem as the chief of my joy.  
7 Remember, O Lord, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, “Raze it, raze it, even to its foundations.”  
8 Wretched daughter of Babylon! Blessed shall he be who shall reward you as you have rewarded us.  
9 Blessed shall he be who shall seize and dash your infants against the rock.                 
     
     PSALM 138
     
1 A Psalm for David, of Aggaeus and Zacharias. 
I will give You thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart; and I will sing psalms to You before the angels; for You have heard all the words of my mouth.  
2 I will worship toward Your holy temple, and give thanks to Your name, on account of Your mercy and Your truth; for You have magnified Your holy name above all things.  
3 In whatsoever day I shall call upon You, hear me speedily; You shall abundantly provide me with Your power in my soul.  
4 Let all the kings of the earth, O Lord, give thanks unto You; for they have heard all the words of Your mouth.  
5 And let them sing in the ways of the Lord; for great is the glory of the Lord.  
6 For the Lord is on high, and yet regards the lowly; and He knows high things from afar off.  
7 Though I should walk in the midst of affliction, You will revive me; You have stretched forth Your hands against the wrath of my enemies, and Your right hand has saved me.  
8 O Lord, You shall recompense them on my behalf: Your mercy, O Lord, endures forever: do not overlook the works of Your hands.                          
     
     PSALM   139

1 A Psalm of David. 
O Lord, You have proved me, and known me.  
2 You know my sitting down and my rising up; You understand my thoughts long before.  
3 You have traced my path and my bed, and have foreseen all my ways.  
4 For there is no unrighteous word on my tongue: behold, O Lord, You have known all things,  
5 the last and the first: You have fashioned me, and laid Your hand upon me.  
6 The knowledge of You is too wonderful for me; it is very difficult, I cannot attain to it.  
7 Where shall I go from Your Spirit? And to where shall I flee from Your presence?  
8 If I should go up to heaven, You are there: if I should go down to hell, You are present.  
9 If I should spread my wings to fly straight forward, and sojourn at the extremity of the sea, it would be vain,  
10 for even there Your hand would guide me, and Your right hand would hold me.  
11 When I said, “Surely the darkness will cover me; even the night was light in my luxury.”  
12 For darkness will not be darkness with You; but night will be light as day. As its darkness, so shall its light be to You.  
13 For You, O Lord, have possessed my reins; You have helped me from my mother's womb.  
14 I will give You thanks; for You are fearfully wondrous; wondrous are Your works; and my soul knows it well.  
15 My frame, which You made in secret, was not hidden from You, nor my substance, in the lowest parts of the earth.  
16 Your eyes saw my unformed substance, and all men shall be written in Your book; they shall be formed by day, though there should for a time be no one among them.  
17 But Your friends, O God, have been greatly honored by me; their rule has been greatly strengthened.  
18 I will number them, and they shall be multiplied beyond the sand; I awake, and am still with You.  
19 Oh that You would slay the wicked, O God. Depart from me, you men of blood!  
20 For you will say concerning their thoughts, that they shall take your cities in vain.  
21 Have I not hated them, O Lord, that hate You? And have I not wasted away because of Your enemies?  
22 I have hated them with perfect hatred; they were counted as my enemies.  
23 Prove me, O God, and know my heart; examine me, and know my paths;  
24 and see if there is any way of iniquity in me, and lead me in an everlasting way.                  
     
     PSALM 140
 
1 A Psalm of David. 
Rescue me, O Lord, from the evil man; deliver me from the unjust man.   
2 Who have devised injustice in their hearts; all the day they prepared war.  
3 They have sharpened their tongue as the tongue of a serpent; the poison of asps is under their lips. Selah.  
4 Keep me, O Lord, from the hand of the sinner; rescue me from unjust men; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.  
5 The proud have hid a snare for me, and have stretched out ropes for snares for my feet; they set a stumbling block for me near the path. Selah.  
6 I said to the Lord, “You are my God”; hearken, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication.  
7 O Lord God, the strength of my salvation; You have covered my head in the day of battle.  
8 Deliver me not, O Lord, to the sinner, according to my desire; they have devised mischief against me; do not forsake me, lest they should be exalted. Selah.  
9 As for the head of them that surround me, the mischief of their lips shall cover them.  
10 Coals of fire shall fall upon them on the earth; and You shall cast them down in afflictions; they shall not bear up under them.  
11 A slandering man shall not prosper on the earth: evils shall hunt the unrighteous man to destruction.  
12 I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the poor, and the right of the needy ones.  
13 Surely the righteous shall give thanks to Your name: the upright shall dwell in Your presence.                   
     
     PSALM  141

1 A Psalm of David. 
O Lord, I have cried to You; hear me: attend to the voice of my supplication, when I cry to You.  
2 Let my prayer be set forth before You as incense; the lifting up of my hands as an evening sacrifice.  
3 Set a watch, O Lord, on my mouth, and a strong door about by lips.  
4  Do not incline my heart to evil things, to employ pretexts for sins, with men who work iniquity: and let me not unite with their choice ones.  
5 The righteous shall chasten me with mercy, and reprove me: but let not the oil of the sinner anoint my head: for yet shall my prayer also be in their pleasures.  
6 Their mighty ones have been swallowed up near the rock: they shall hear my words, for they are sweet.  
7 As a lump of earth is crushed upon the ground, our bones have been scattered by the mouth of the grave.  
8 For my eyes are upon You, O Lord God; I have hoped in You; do not take my life away.  
9 Keep me from the snare which they have set for me, and from the stumbling blocks of them that work iniquity.  
10 Sinners shall fall by their own net: I am alone until I shall escape.                  
     
                                                                     PSALM 142

1 A Psalm of instruction for David, when he was in the cave—A Prayer.  
I cried to the Lord with my voice; with my voice I made supplication to the Lord.  
2 I will pour out my supplication before Him. I will declare before Him my affliction.  
3 When my spirit was fainting within me, then You knew my paths; in the very way in which I was walking, they hid a snare for me.  
4 I looked on my right hand, and behold, for there was none that noticed me; refuge failed me; and there was none that cared for my soul.  
5 I cried unto You, O Lord, and said, “You are my hope, my portion in the land of the living.”  
6 Attend to my supplication, for I am brought very low; deliver me from them that persecute me; for they are stronger than I.  
7 Bring my soul out of prison, that I may give thanks to Your name, O Lord; the righteous shall wait for me, until You recompense me.                    
     
                                                                   PSALM 143

1 A Psalm of David, when his son pursued him. 
O Lord, attend to my prayer; hearken to my supplication in Your truth; hear me in Your righteousness.  
2 And do not enter into judgment with Your servant, for in Your sight shall no man living be justified.  
3 For the enemy has persecuted my soul; he has brought my life down to the ground; he has made me to dwell in a dark place, as those that have been long dead.  
4 Therefore my spirit was grieved in me; my heart was troubled within me.  
5 I remembered the days of old; and I meditated on all Your doings: yes, I meditated on the works of Your hands.  
6 I spread forth my hands to You; my soul thirsts for You, as a dry land. Selah.  
7 Hear me speedily, O Lord; my spirit has failed; do not hide Your face from me, lest I be like them that go down to the pit.  
8 Cause me to hear Your mercy in the morning; for I have hoped in You; make known to me, O Lord, the way in which I should walk; for I have lifted up my soul to You.  
9 Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord; for I have fled to You for refuge.  
10 Teach me to do Your will; for You are my God; Your good Spirit shall guide me in the straight way.  
11 You shall revive me, O Lord, for Your name's sake; in Your righteousness You shall bring my soul out of affliction.  
12 And in Your mercy You will destroy my enemies, and will destroy all those that afflict my soul; for I am Your servant.                  
     
     
     PSALM 144

1 A Psalm of David concerning Goliath. Blessed be the Lord my God, who instructs my hands for battle, and my fingers for war.  
2 My mercy, and my refuge; my helper, and my deliverer; my protector, in whom I have trusted; who subdues my people under me.  
3 Lord, what is man, that You are made known to him? Or the son of man, that You take account of him?  
4 Man is likened unto vanity: his days pass as a shadow.  
5 O Lord, bow Your heavens, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.  
6 Send lightning, and You shall scatter them: send forth Your arrows, and You shall discomfit them.  
7 Send forth Your hand from on high; rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters, out of the hand of strange children;  
8 whose mouth has spoken vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity.  
9 O God, I will sing a new song to You: I will play to You on an instrument of ten strings.  
10 Even to Him who gives salvation to kings: who redeems His servant David from the hurtful sword.  
11 Deliver me, and rescue me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth has spoken vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity;  
12 whose children are as plants, strengthened in their youth: their daughters are beautiful, sumptuously adorned after the likeness of a temple.  
13 Their garners are full, and bursting with one kind of store after another; their sheep are prolific, multiplying in their streets.  
14 Their oxen are fat: there is no falling down of a hedge, nor going out, nor cry in their folds.  
15 Men bless the people to whom this lot belongs, but blessed are the people whose God is the Lord.                 
     
     PSALM  145

1 David's Psalm of praise. 
I will exalt You, my God, my king; and I will bless Your name forever and ever.   
2 Every day will I bless You, and I will praise Your name forever and ever.  
3 The Lord is great, and greatly to be praised; and there is no end to His greatness.  
4 Generation after generation shall praise Your works, and tell of Your power.  
5 And they shall speak of the glorious majesty of Your holiness, and recount Your wonders.  
6 And they shall speak of the power of Your awesome acts; and recount of Your greatness.  
7 They shall utter the memory of the abundance of Your goodness, and shall exalt in Your righteousness.  
8 The Lord is compassionate, and merciful; long suffering, and abundant in mercy.  
9 The Lord is good to those that wait on Him; and His compassions are over all His works.  
10 Let all Your works, O Lord, give thanks to You; and let Your saints bless You.  
11 They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom, and talk of Your dominion;  
12  to make known to the sons of men Your power, and the glorious majesty of Your kingdom.  
13 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and Your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in His words, and holy in all His works.  
14 The Lord supports all that are falling, and sets up all that are broken down.  
15 The eyes of all wait upon You; and You give them their food in due season.  
16 You open Your hands, and fill every living thing with pleasure.  
17 The Lord is righteous in all His ways, and holy in all His works.  
18 The Lord is near to all that call upon Him, to all that call upon Him in truth.  
19 He will perform the desire of them that fear Him: and He will hear their supplication, and save them.  
20 The Lord preserves all that love Him: but all sinners He will utterly destroy.  
21 My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord: and let all flesh bless His holy name forever and ever.                 
     
     
     
     PSALM  146

1 Alleluia, A Psalm of Aggaeus and Zacharias. 
Praise the Lord, O my soul!.  
2 While I live will I praise the Lord: I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist.  
3 Trust not in princes, nor in the children of men, in whom there is no safety.  
4 His breath shall go forth, and he shall return to his earth; in that day all his thoughts shall perish.  
5 Blessed is he whose helper is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God:  
6 who made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things in them; who keeps truth forever;  
7 who executes judgment for the wronged: who gives food to the hungry. The Lord looses the fettered ones.  
8 The Lord gives wisdom to the blind; the Lord sets up the broken down; the Lord loves the righteous; the Lord preserves the strangers;  
9 He will relieve the orphan and widow: but will utterly remove the way of sinners.  
10 The Lord shall reign forever, even your God, O Zion, to all generations.                
     
                                                                    PSALM  147

1 Alleluia, A Psalm of Aggaeus and Zacharias. 
Praise the Lord! For singing psalms is a good thing; let praise be sweetly sung to our God.  
2 The Lord builds up Jerusalem; and He will gather together the dispersed of Israel.  
3 He heals the brokenhearted, and binds up their wounds.  
4 He numbers the multitudes of stars; and calls them all by name.  
5 Great is our Lord, and great is His strength; and His understanding is infinite.  
6 The Lord lifts up the meek; but brings sinners down to the ground.  
7 Begin the song with thanksgiving to the Lord; sing praises on the harp to our God;  
8 who covers the heaven with clouds, who prepares rain for the earth, who causes grass to spring up on the mountains, and green herb for the service of men;  
9 and gives cattle their food, and to the young ravens that call upon Him.  
10 He will not take pleasure in the strength of a horse; neither is He well-pleased with the legs of a man.  
11 The Lord takes pleasure in them that fear Him, and in all that hope in His mercy.  
12 Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem; praise your God, O Zion.  
13 For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your children within you.  
14 He makes your borders peaceful, and fills you with the flour of wheat.  
15 He sends His oracle to the earth; His word will run swiftly.  
16 He gives snow like wool; He scatters the mist like ashes.  
17 Casting forth His ice like morsels; who shall stand before His cold?  
18 He shall send out His word, and melt them; He shall blow with His wind, and the waters shall flow.  
19 He sends His word to Jacob, His ordinances and judgments to Israel.  
20 He has not done so to any other nation; and He has not shown them His judgments.                  
     
     
     
     PSALM  148

1 Alleluia, A Psalm of Aggaeus and Zacharias. 
Praise the Lord from the heavens; praise Him in the highest.  
2 Praise Him, all His angels: praise Him, all His hosts.  
3 Praise Him, sun and moon; praise Him, all you stars and light.  
4 Praise Him, you heavens of heavens, and the water that is above the heavens.  
5 Let them praise the name of the Lord; for He spoke, and they were made; He commanded, and they were created.  
6 He has established them forever, even forever and ever; He has made an ordinance, and it shall not pass away.  
7 Praise the Lord from the earth, you serpents, and all the depths.  
8 Fire, hail, snow, ice, and stormy wind; the things that perform His word.  
9 Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars;  
10 wild beasts, and all cattle; reptiles, and winged birds;  
11 kings of the earth, and all peoples; princes, and all judges of the earth;  
12 young men and virgins, old men with youths;  
13 let them praise the name of the Lord, for His name alone is exalted; His praise is above the earth and heaven,  
14 and He shall exalt the horn of His people, there is a hymn for all His saints, even of the children of Israel, a people who draw near to Him.                
     
     PSALM  149

1 Alleluia. 
Sing to the Lord a new song; His praise is in the assembly of the saints.  
2 Let Israel rejoice in Him that made him; and let the children of Zion exalt in their King.  
3 Let them praise His name in the dance; let them sings praises to Him with timbrel and psaltery.  
4 For the Lord takes pleasure in His people; and will exalt the meek with salvation.  
5 The saints shall rejoice in glory; and shall exalt on their beds.  
6 The high praises of God shall be in their mouth, and two-edged swords in their hands;  
7 to execute vengeance on the nations, and punishments among the peoples;  
8 to bind their kings with fetters, and their nobles with manacles of iron;   to execute on them the judgment written: this honor have all His saints.              
     
     PSALM 150

1 Alleluia. 
Praise God in His holy places; praise Him in the firmament of His power.  
2 Praise Him on account of His mighty acts; praise Him according to His abundant greatness.  
3 Praise Him with the sound of a trumpet; praise Him with psaltery and harp.  
4 Praise Him with timbrel and dance; praise Him with stringed instruments and the organ.  
5 Praise Him with melodious cymbals; praise Him with loud cymbals.  
6 Let everything that has breath praise the Lord.                
     
     PSALM   151

1 This Psalm is a genuine one of David, though supernumerary, composed when he fought in single combat with Goliath. 
I was small among my brothers, and youngest in my father's house: I tended my father's sheep.  
2 My hands formed a musical instrument, and my fingers tuned a psaltery.  
3 And who shall tell my Lord? The Lord Himself, He Himself hears.  
4 He sent forth His angel, and took me from my father's sheep, and He anointed me with the oil of His anointing.  
5 My brothers were handsome and tall; but the Lord did not take pleasure in them.  
6 I went forth to meet the Philistine; and he cursed me by his idols.  
7 But I drew his own sword, and beheaded him, and removed the reproach from the children of Israel.        

1 In the Septuagint, Psalms 9 and 10 are combined, and the Psalm numbers differ from this point on. The Logos Bible follows the traditional Psalm divisions, to avoid confusion.                    
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

