Exo 1:1  These are the names of the sons of Israel who entered Egypt – each man with his household entered with Jacob:  
Exo 1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,  
Exo 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,  
Exo 1:4 Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.  
Exo 1:5 All the people who were directly descended from Jacob numbered seventy. But Joseph was already in Egypt,  
Exo 1:6 and in time Joseph and his brothers and all that generation died.  
Exo 1:7 The Israelites, however, were fruitful, increased greatly, multiplied, and became extremely strong, so that the land was filled with them. 
Exo 1:8 Then a new king, who did not know about Joseph, came to power over Egypt.  
Exo 1:9 He said to his people, “Look at the Israelite people, more numerous and stronger than we are! 
Exo 1:10 Come, let’s deal wisely with them. Otherwise they will continue to multiply, and if a war breaks out, they will ally themselves with our enemies and fight against us and leave the country.”  
Exo 1:11 So they put foremen over the Israelites to oppress them with hard labor. As a result they built Pithom and Rameses as store cities for Pharaoh.  
Exo 1:12 But the more the Egyptians oppressed them, the more they multiplied and spread. As a result the Egyptians loathed the Israelites,  
Exo 1:13 and they made the Israelites serve rigorously.  
Exo 1:14 They made their lives bitter by hard service with mortar and bricks and by all kinds of service in the fields. Every kind of service the Israelites were required to give was rigorous.  
Exo 1:15 The king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiphrah and the other Puah,  
Exo 1:16  “When you assist the Hebrew women in childbirth, observe at the delivery: If it is a son, kill him, but if it is a daughter, she may live.”  
Exo 1:17 But the midwives feared God and did not do what the king of Egypt had told them; they let the boys live.  
Exo 1:18 Then the king of Egypt summoned the midwives and said to them, “Why have you done this and let the boys live?”  
Exo 1:19 The midwives said to Pharaoh, “Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women – for the Hebrew women are vigorous; they give birth before the midwife gets to them!” 
Exo 1:20 So God treated the midwives well, and the people multiplied and became very strong. 
Exo 1:21 And because the midwives feared God, he made households for them. 
Exo 1:22 Then Pharaoh commanded all his people, “All sons that are born you must throw into the river, but all daughters you may let live.”  
Exo 2:1  A man from the household of Levi married a woman who was a descendant of Levi.  
Exo 2:2 The woman became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that he was a healthy child, she hid him for three months.  
Exo 2:3 But when she was no longer able to hide him, she took a papyrus basket for him and sealed it with bitumen and pitch. She put the child in it and set it among the reeds along the edge of the Nile.  
Exo 2:4 His sister stationed herself at a distance to find out what would happen to him. 
Exo 2:5 Then the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself by the Nile, while her attendants were walking alongside the river, and she saw the basket among the reeds. She sent one of her attendants, took it, 
Exo 2:6 opened it, and saw the child – a boy, crying! – and she felt compassion for him and said, “This is one of the Hebrews’ children.”  
Exo 2:7 Then his sister said to Pharaoh’s daughter, “Shall I go and get a nursing woman for you from the Hebrews, so that she may nurse the child for you?” 
Exo 2:8 Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Yes, do so.” So the young girl went and got the child’s mother.  
Exo 2:9 Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Take this child and nurse him for me, and I will pay your wages.” So the woman took the child and nursed him. 
Exo 2:10 When the child grew older she brought him to Pharaoh’s daughter, and he became her son. She named him Moses, saying, “Because I drew him from the water.”  
Exo 2:11  In those days, when Moses had grown up, he went out to his people and observed their hard labor, and he saw an Egyptian man attacking a Hebrew man, one of his own people.  
Exo 2:12 He looked this way and that and saw that no one was there, and then he attacked the Egyptian and concealed the body in the sand.  
Exo 2:13 When he went out the next day, there were two Hebrew men fighting. So he said to the one who was in the wrong, “Why are you attacking your fellow Hebrew?”  
Exo 2:14 The man replied, “Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Are you planning to kill me like you killed that Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid, thinking, “Surely what I did has become known.”  
Exo 2:15 When Pharaoh heard about this event, he sought to kill Moses. So Moses fled from Pharaoh and settled in the land of Midian, and he settled by a certain well.  
Exo 2:16 Now a priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and began to draw water and fill the troughs in order to water their father’s flock.  
Exo 2:17 When some shepherds came and drove them away, Moses came up and defended them and then watered their flock.  
Exo 2:18 So when they came home to their father Reuel, he asked, “Why have you come home so early today?”  
Exo 2:19 They said, “An Egyptian man rescued us from the shepherds, and he actually drew water for us and watered the flock!”  
Exo 2:20 He said to his daughters, “So where is he? Why in the world did you leave the man? Call him, so that he may eat a meal with us.” 
Exo 2:21 Moses agreed to stay with the man, and he gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses in marriage. 
Exo 2:22 When she bore a son, Moses named him Gershom, for he said, “I have become a resident foreigner in a foreign land.”  
Exo 2:23  During that long period of time the king of Egypt died, and the Israelites groaned because of the slave labor. They cried out, and their desperate cry because of their slave labor went up to God.  
Exo 2:24 God heard their groaning, God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob,  
Exo 2:25 God saw the Israelites, and God understood.  
Exo 3:1 Now Moses was shepherding the flock of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to the mountain of God, to Horeb.  
Exo 3:2 The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from within a bush. He looked – and the bush was ablaze with fire, but it was not being consumed!  
Exo 3:3 So Moses thought, “I will turn aside to see this amazing sight. Why does the bush not burn up?”  
Exo 3:4 When the Lord saw that he had turned aside to look, God called to him from within the bush and said, “Moses, Moses!” And Moses said, “Here I am.” 
Exo 3:5 God said, “Do not approach any closer! Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.”  
Exo 3:6 He added, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Then Moses hid his face, because he was afraid to look at God.  
Exo 3:7 The Lord said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.  
Exo 3:8 I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up from that land to a land that is both good and spacious, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the region of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites.  
Exo 3:9 And now indeed the cry of the Israelites has come to me, and I have also seen how severely the Egyptians oppress them. 
Exo 3:10 So now go, and I will send you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt.”  
Exo 3:11 Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, or that I should bring the Israelites out of Egypt?”  
Exo 3:12 He replied, “Surely I will be with you, and this will be the sign to you that I have sent you: When you bring the people out of Egypt, you and they will serve God at this mountain.”  
Exo 3:13 Moses said to God, “If I go to the Israelites and tell them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ – what should I say to them?” 
Exo 3:14 God said to Moses, “I am that I am.” And he said, “You must say this to the Israelites, ‘I am has sent me to you.’” 
Exo 3:15 God also said to Moses, “You must say this to the Israelites, ‘The Lord – the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob – has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial from generation to generation.’  
Exo 3:16  “Go and bring together the elders of Israel and tell them, ‘The Lord, the God of your fathers, appeared to me – the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob – saying, “I have attended carefully to you and to what has been done to you in Egypt,  
Exo 3:17 and I have promised that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’  
Exo 3:18  “The elders will listen to you, and then you and the elders of Israel must go to the king of Egypt and tell him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. So now, let us go three days’ journey into the wilderness, so that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God.’  
Exo 3:19 But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go, not even under force.  
Exo 3:20 So I will extend my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will do among them, and after that he will release you.  
Exo 3:21  “I will grant this people favor with the Egyptians, so that when you depart you will not leave empty-handed.  
Exo 3:22 Every woman will ask her neighbor and the one who happens to be staying in her house for items of silver and gold and for clothing. You will put these articles on your sons and daughters – thus you will plunder Egypt!”  
Exo 4:1  Moses answered again, “And if they do not believe me or pay attention to me, but say, ‘The Lord has not appeared to you’?” 
Exo 4:2 The Lord said to him, “What is that in your hand?” He said, “A staff.”  
Exo 4:3 The Lord said, “Throw it to the ground.” So he threw it to the ground, and it became a snake, and Moses ran from it. 
Exo 4:4 But the Lord said to Moses, “Put out your hand and grab it by the tail” – so he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand – 
Exo 4:5 “that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.” 
Exo 4:6 The Lord also said to him, “Put your hand into your robe.” So he put his hand into his robe, and when he brought it out – there was his hand, leprous like snow!  
Exo 4:7 He said, “Put your hand back into your robe.” So he put his hand back into his robe, and when he brought it out from his robe – there it was, restored like the rest of his skin!  
Exo 4:8 “If they do not believe you or pay attention to the former sign, then they may believe the latter sign.  
Exo 4:9 And if they do not believe even these two signs or listen to you, then take some water from the Nile and pour it out on the dry ground. The water you take out of the Nile will become blood on the dry ground.”  
Exo 4:10 Then Moses said to the Lord, “O my Lord, I am not an eloquent man, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant, for I am slow of speech and slow of tongue.”  
Exo 4:11 The Lord said to him, “Who gave a mouth to man, or who makes a person mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord?  
Exo 4:12 So now go, and I will be with your mouth and will teach you what you must say.”  
Exo 4:13 But Moses said, “O my Lord, please send anyone else whom you wish to send!”  
Exo 4:14 Then the Lord became angry with Moses, and he said, “What about your brother Aaron the Levite? I know that he can speak very well. Moreover, he is coming to meet you, and when he sees you he will be glad in his heart.  
Exo 4:15  “So you are to speak to him and put the words in his mouth. And as for me, I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and I will teach you both what you must do.  
Exo 4:16 He will speak for you to the people, and it will be as if he were your mouth and as if you were his God.  
Exo 4:17 You will also take in your hand this staff, with which you will do the signs.”  
Exo 4:18  So Moses went back to his father-in-law Jethro and said to him, “Let me go, so that I may return to my relatives in Egypt and see if they are still alive.” Jethro said to Moses, “Go in peace.”  
Exo 4:19 The Lord said to Moses in Midian, “Go back to Egypt, because all the men who were seeking your life are dead.”  
Exo 4:20 Then Moses took his wife and sons and put them on a donkey and headed back to the land of Egypt, and Moses took the staff of God in his hand.  
Exo 4:21 The Lord said to Moses, “When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the wonders I have put under your control. But I will harden his heart and he will not let the people go.  
Exo 4:22 You must say to Pharaoh, ‘This is what the Lord has said, “Israel is my son, my firstborn,  
Exo 4:23 and I said to you, ‘Let my son go that he may serve me,’ but since you have refused to let him go, I will surely kill your son, your firstborn!”’”  
Exo 4:24 Now on the way, at a place where they stopped for the night, the Lord met Moses and sought to kill him. 
Exo 4:25 But Zipporah took a flint knife, cut off the foreskin of her son and touched it to Moses’ feet, and said, “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me.” 
Exo 4:26 So the Lord let him alone. (At that time she said, “A bridegroom of blood,” referring to the circumcision.)  
Exo 4:27 The Lord said to Aaron, “Go to the wilderness to meet Moses. So he went and met him at the mountain of God and greeted him with a kiss.  
Exo 4:28 Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord who had sent him and all the signs that he had commanded him. 
Exo 4:29 Then Moses and Aaron went and brought together all the Israelite elders.  
Exo 4:30 Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people,  
Exo 4:31 and the people believed. When they heard that the Lord had attended to the Israelites and that he had seen their affliction, they bowed down close to the ground. 
Exo 5:1  Afterward Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said, ‘Release my people so that they may hold a pilgrim feast to me in the wilderness.’”  
Exo 5:2 But Pharaoh said, “Who is the Lord that I should obey him by releasing Israel? I do not know the Lord, and I will not release Israel!”  
Exo 5:3 And they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Let us go a three-day journey into the wilderness so that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, so that he does not strike us with plague or the sword.”  
Exo 5:4 The king of Egypt said to them, “Moses and Aaron, why do you cause the people to refrain from their work? Return to your labor!”  
Exo 5:5 Pharaoh was thinking, “The people of the land are now many, and you are giving them rest from their labor.”  
Exo 5:6 That same day Pharaoh commanded the slave masters and foremen who were over the people:  
Exo 5:7 “You must no longer give straw to the people for making bricks as before. Let them go and collect straw for themselves. 
Exo 5:8 But you must require of them the same quota of bricks that they were making before. Do not reduce it, for they are slackers. That is why they are crying, ‘Let us go sacrifice to our God.’  
Exo 5:9 Make the work harder for the men so they will keep at it and pay no attention to lying words!”  
Exo 5:10 So the slave masters of the people and their foremen went to the Israelites and said, “Thus says Pharaoh: ‘I am not giving you straw.  
Exo 5:11 You go get straw for yourselves wherever you can find it, because there will be no reduction at all in your workload.’”  
Exo 5:12 So the people spread out through all the land of Egypt to collect stubble for straw.  
Exo 5:13 The slave masters were pressuring them, saying, “Complete your work for each day, just like when there was straw!”  
Exo 5:14 The Israelite foremen whom Pharaoh’s slave masters had set over them were beaten and were asked, “Why did you not complete your requirement for brickmaking as in the past – both yesterday and today?”  
Exo 5:15  The Israelite foremen went and cried out to Pharaoh, “Why are you treating your servants this way? 
Exo 5:16 No straw is given to your servants, but we are told, ‘Make bricks!’ Your servants are even being beaten, but the fault is with your people.”  
Exo 5:17 But Pharaoh replied, “You are slackers! Slackers! That is why you are saying, ‘Let us go sacrifice to the Lord.’” 
Exo 5:18 So now, get back to work! You will not be given straw, but you must still produce your quota of bricks!”  
Exo 5:19 The Israelite foremen saw that they were in trouble when they were told, “You must not reduce the daily quota of your bricks.”  
Exo 5:20 When they went out from Pharaoh, they encountered Moses and Aaron standing there to meet them, 
Exo 5:21 and they said to them, “May the Lord look on you and judge, because you have made us stink in the opinion of Pharaoh and his servants, so that you have given them an excuse to kill us!” 
Exo 5:22  Moses returned to the Lord, and said, “Lord, why have you caused trouble for this people? Why did you ever send me? 
Exo 5:23 From the time I went to speak to Pharaoh in your name, he has caused trouble for this people, and you have certainly not rescued them!” 
Exo 6:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, “Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh, for compelled by my strong hand he will release them, and by my strong hand he will drive them out of his land.”  
Exo 6:2 God spoke to Moses and said to him, “I am the Lord.  
Exo 6:3 I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty, but by my name ‘the Lord’ I was not known to them. 
Exo 6:4 I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they were living as resident foreigners.  
Exo 6:5 I have also heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant.  
Exo 6:6 Therefore, tell the Israelites, ‘I am the Lord. I will bring you out from your enslavement to the Egyptians, I will rescue you from the hard labor they impose, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments.  
Exo 6:7 I will take you to myself for a people, and I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from your enslavement to the Egyptians.  
Exo 6:8 I will bring you to the land I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob – and I will give it to you as a possession. I am the Lord.’” 
Exo 6:9  Moses told this to the Israelites, but they did not listen to him because of their discouragement and hard labor.  
Exo 6:10 Then the Lord said to Moses,  
Exo 6:11 “Go, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt that he must release the Israelites from his land.”  
Exo 6:12 But Moses replied to the Lord, “If the Israelites did not listen to me, then how will Pharaoh listen to me, since I speak with difficulty?”  
Exo 6:13 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron and gave them a charge for the Israelites and Pharaoh king of Egypt to bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt.  
Exo 6:14  These are the heads of their fathers’ households: The sons of Reuben, the firstborn son of Israel, were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. These were the clans of Reuben.  
Exo 6:15 The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman. These were the clans of Simeon.  
Exo 6:16 Now these are the names of the sons of Levi, according to their records: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. (The length of Levi’s life was 137 years.)  
Exo 6:17 The sons of Gershon, by their families, were Libni and Shimei.  
Exo 6:18 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. (The length of Kohath’s life was 133 years.)  
Exo 6:19 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. These were the clans of Levi, according to their records.  
Exo 6:20 Amram married his father’s sister Jochebed, and she bore him Aaron and Moses. (The length of Amram’s life was 137 years.)  
Exo 6:21 The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg, and Zikri.  
Exo 6:22 The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri.  
Exo 6:23 Aaron married Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.  
Exo 6:24 The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These were the Korahite clans.  
Exo 6:25 Now Eleazar son of Aaron married one of the daughters of Putiel and she bore him Phinehas.These are the heads of the fathers’ households of Levi according to their clans.  
Exo 6:26 It was the same Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, “Bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their regiments.”  
Exo 6:27 They were the men who were speaking to Pharaoh king of Egypt, in order to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. It was the same Moses and Aaron.  
Exo 6:28  When the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,  
Exo 6:29 he said to him, “I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I am telling you.” 
Exo 6:30 But Moses said before the Lord, “Since I speak with difficulty, why should Pharaoh listen to me?”  
Exo 7:1 So the Lord said to Moses, “See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet.  
Exo 7:2 You are to speak everything I command you, and your brother Aaron is to tell Pharaoh that he must release the Israelites from his land.  
Exo 7:3 But I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and although I will multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt,  
Exo 7:4 Pharaoh will not listen to you. I will reach into Egypt and bring out my regiments, my people the Israelites, from the land of Egypt with great acts of judgment.  
Exo 7:5 Then the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord, when I extend my hand over Egypt and bring the Israelites out from among them. 
Exo 7:6 And Moses and Aaron did so; they did just as the Lord commanded them. 
Exo 7:7 Now Moses was eighty years old and Aaron was eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh.  
Exo 7:8 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron,  
Exo 7:9 “When Pharaoh says to you, ‘Do a miracle,’ and you say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh,’ it will become a snake.”  
Exo 7:10 When Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh, they did so, just as the Lord had commanded them – Aaron threw down  his staff before Pharaoh and his servants and it became a snake.  
Exo 7:11 Then Pharaoh also summoned wise men and sorcerers, and the magicians of Egypt by their secret arts did the same thing.  
Exo 7:12 Each man threw down his staff, and the staffs became snakes. But Aaron’s staff swallowed up their staffs.  
Exo 7:13 Yet Pharaoh’s heart became hard, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had predicted.  
Exo 7:14  The Lord said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is hard; he refuses to release the people.  
Exo 7:15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning when he goes out to the water. Position yourself to meet him by the edge of the Nile, and take in your hand the staff that was turned into a snake.  
Exo 7:16 Tell him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you to say, “Release my people, that they may serve me in the wilderness!” But until now you have not listened.  
Exo 7:17 This is what the Lord has  said:“By this you will know that I am the Lord: I am going to strike the water of the Nile with the staff that is in my hand, and it will be turned into blood.  
Exo 7:18 Fish in the Nile will die, the Nile will stink, and the Egyptians will be unable to drink water from the Nile.”’”  
Exo 7:19 Then the Lord said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Take your staff and stretch out your hand over Egypt’s waters – over their rivers, over their canals, over their ponds, and over all their reservoirs – so that it becomes blood.’ There will be blood everywhere in the land of Egypt, even in wooden and stone containers.” 
Exo 7:20 Moses and Aaron did so, just as the Lord had commanded. He raised the staff and struck the water that was in the Nile right before the eyes of Pharaoh and his servants, and all the water that was in the Nile was turned to blood.  
Exo 7:21 When the fish that were in the Nile died, the Nile began to stink, so that the Egyptians could not drink water from the Nile. There was blood everywhere in the land of Egypt!  
Exo 7:22 But the magicians of Egypt did the same by their secret arts, and so Pharaoh’s heart remained hard, and he refused to listen to Moses and Aaron – just as the Lord had predicted.  
Exo 7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house. He did not pay any attention to this.  
Exo 7:24 All the Egyptians dug around the Nile for water to drink, because they could not drink the water of the Nile.  
Exo 7:25  Seven full days passed after the Lord struck the Nile.  
Exo 8:1 (7:26) Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh and tell him, ‘This is what the Lord has said: “Release my people in order that they may serve me! 
Exo 8:2 But if you refuse to release them, then I am going to plague all your territory with frogs.  
Exo 8:3 The Nile will swarm with frogs, and they will come up and go into your house, in your bedroom, and on your bed, and into the houses of your servants and your people, and into your ovens and your kneading troughs.  
Exo 8:4 Frogs will come up against you, your people, and all your servants.”’”  
Exo 8:5 The Lord spoke to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Extend your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the canals, and over the ponds, and bring the frogs up over the land of Egypt.’”  
Exo 8:6 So Aaron extended his hand over the waters of Egypt, and frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.  
Exo 8:7 The magicians did the same with their secret arts and brought up frogs on the land of Egypt too. 
Exo 8:8 Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “Pray to the Lord that he may take the frogs away from me and my people, and I will release the people that they may sacrifice to the Lord.” 
Exo 8:9 Moses said to Pharaoh, “You may have the honor over me – when shall I pray for you, your servants, and your people, for the frogs to be removed from you and your houses, so that they will be left only in the Nile?”  
Exo 8:10 He said, “Tomorrow.” And Moses said, “It will be as you say, so that you may know that there is no one like the Lord our God.  
Exo 8:11 The frogs will depart from you, your houses, your servants, and your people; they will be left only in the Nile.”  
Exo 8:12 Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to the Lord because of the frogs that he had brought on Pharaoh.  
Exo 8:13 The Lord did as Moses asked – the frogs died out of the houses, the villages, and the fields.  
Exo 8:14 The Egyptians piled them in countless heaps, and the land stank.  
Exo 8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was relief, he hardened his heart and did not listen to them, just as the Lord had predicted.  
Exo 8:16  The Lord said to Moses, “Tell Aaron, ‘Extend your staff and strike the dust of the ground, and it will become gnats throughout all the land of Egypt.’”  
Exo 8:17 They did so; Aaron extended his hand with his staff, he struck the dust of the ground, and it became gnats on people and on animals. All the dust of the ground became gnats throughout all the land of Egypt.  
Exo 8:18 When the magicians attempted to bring forth gnats by their secret arts, they could not. So there were gnats on people and on animals.  
Exo 8:19 The magicians said to Pharaoh, “It is the finger of God!” But Pharaoh’s heart remained hard, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had predicted.  
Exo 8:20  The Lord said to Moses, “Get up early in the morning and position yourself before Pharaoh as he goes out to the water, and tell him, ‘This is what the Lord has said, “Release my people that they may serve me! 
Exo 8:21 If you do not release my people, then I am going to send swarms of flies on you and on your servants and on your people and in your houses. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies, and even the ground they stand on.  
Exo 8:22 But on that day I will mark off the land of Goshen, where my people are staying, so that no swarms of flies will be there, that you may know that I am the Lord in the midst of this land.  
Exo 8:23 I will put a division between my people and your people. This sign will take place tomorrow.”’”  
Exo 8:24 The Lord did so; a thick swarm of flies came into Pharaoh’s house and into the houses of his servants, and throughout the whole land of Egypt the land was ruined because of the swarms of flies.  
Exo 8:25 Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “Go, sacrifice to your God within the land.”  
Exo 8:26 But Moses said, “That would not be the right thing to do, for the sacrifices we make to the Lord our God would be an abomination to the Egyptians. If we make sacrifices that are an abomination to the Egyptians right before their eyes, will they not stone us? 
Exo 8:27 We must go on a three-day journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the Lord our God, just as he is telling us.”  
Exo 8:28 Pharaoh said, “I will release you so that you may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness. Only you must not go very far. Do pray for me.”  
Exo 8:29 Moses said, “I am going to go out from you and pray to the Lord, and the swarms of flies will go away from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people tomorrow. Only do not let Pharaoh deal falsely again by not releasing the people to sacrifice to the Lord.” 
Exo 8:30 So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord, 
Exo 8:31 and the Lord did as Moses asked – he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. Not one remained!  
Exo 8:32 But Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also and did not release the people.  
Exo 9:1  Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh and tell him, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has said, “Release my people that they may serve me! 
Exo 9:2 For if you refuse to release them and continue holding them, 
Exo 9:3 then the hand of the Lord will surely bring a very terrible plague on your livestock in the field, on the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the herds, and the flocks.  
Exo 9:4 But the Lord will distinguish between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, and nothing will die of all that the Israelites have.”’” 
Exo 9:5 The Lord set an appointed time, saying, “Tomorrow the Lord will do this in the land.”  
Exo 9:6 And the Lord did this on the next day; all the livestock of the Egyptians died, but of the Israelites’ livestock not one died.  
Exo 9:7 Pharaoh sent representatives to investigate, and indeed, not even one of the livestock of Israel had died. But Pharaoh’s heart remained hard, and he did not release the people.  
Exo 9:8  Then the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “Take handfuls of soot from a furnace, and have Moses throw it into the air while Pharaoh is watching.  
Exo 9:9 It will become fine dust over the whole land of Egypt and will cause boils to break out and fester on both people and animals in all the land of Egypt.”  
Exo 9:10 So they took soot from a furnace and stood before Pharaoh, Moses threw it into the air, and it caused festering boils to break out on both people and animals.  
Exo 9:11 The magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for boils were on the magicians and on all the Egyptians.  
Exo 9:12 But the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had predicted to Moses.  
Exo 9:13  The Lord said to Moses, “Get up early in the morning, stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has said: “Release my people so that they may serve me! 
Exo 9:14 For this time I will send all my plagues on your very self and on your servants and your people, so that you may know that there is no one like me in all the earth.  
Exo 9:15 For by now I could have stretched out my hand and struck you and your people with plague, and you would have been destroyed from the earth.  
Exo 9:16 But for this purpose I have caused you to stand: to show you my strength, and so that my name may be declared in all the earth.  
Exo 9:17 You are still exalting yourself against my people by not releasing them. 
Exo 9:18 I am going to cause very severe hail to rain down about this time tomorrow, such hail as has never occurred in Egypt from the day it was founded until now.  
Exo 9:19 So now, send instructions to gather your livestock and all your possessions in the fields to a safe place. Every person or animal caught in the field and not brought into the house – the hail will come down on them, and they will die!”’”  
Exo 9:20 Those of Pharaoh’s servants who feared the Lord’s message hurried to bring their servants and livestock into the houses,  
Exo 9:21 but those who did not take the Lord’s message seriously left their servants and their cattle in the field.  
Exo 9:22 Then the Lord said to Moses, “Extend your hand toward the sky that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, on people and on animals, and on everything that grows in the field in the land of Egypt.”  
Exo 9:23 When Moses extended his staff toward the sky, the Lord sent thunder and hail, and fire fell to the earth; so the Lord caused hail to rain down on the land of Egypt.  
Exo 9:24 Hail fell and fire mingled with the hail; the hail was so severe that there had not been any like it in all the land of Egypt since it had become a nation.  
Exo 9:25 The hail struck everything in the open fields, both people and animals, throughout all the land of Egypt. The hail struck everything that grows in the field, and it broke all the trees of the field to pieces. 
Exo 9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the Israelites lived, was there no hail.  
Exo 9:27 So Pharaoh sent and summoned Moses and Aaron and said to them, “I have sinned this time! The Lord is righteous, and I and my people are guilty.  
Exo 9:28 Pray to the Lord, for the mighty thunderings and hail are too much! I will release you and you will stay no longer.”  
Exo 9:29 Moses said to him, “When I leave the city I will spread my hands to the Lord, the thunder will cease, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know that the earth belongs to the Lord.  
Exo 9:30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear the Lord God.”  
Exo 9:31  (Now the flax and the barley were struck by the hail, for the barley had ripened and the flax was in bud.  
Exo 9:32 But the wheat and the spelt were not struck, for they are later crops.)  
Exo 9:33 So Moses left Pharaoh, went out of the city, and spread out his hands to the Lord, and the thunder and the hail ceased, and the rain stopped pouring on the earth.  
Exo 9:34 When Pharaoh saw that the rain and hail and thunder ceased, he sinned again: both he and his servants hardened their hearts.  
Exo 9:35 So Pharaoh’s heart remained hard, and he did not release the Israelites, as the Lord had predicted through Moses.  
Exo 10:1  The Lord said to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, in order to display these signs of mine before him, 
Exo 10:2 and in order that in the hearing of your son and your grandson you may tell how I made fools of the Egyptians and about my signs that I displayed among them, so that you may know that I am the Lord.” 
Exo 10:3 So Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and told him, “This is what the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has said: ‘How long do you refuse to humble yourself before me? Release my people so that they may serve me! 
Exo 10:4 But if you refuse to release my people, I am going to bring locusts into your territory tomorrow.  
Exo 10:5 They will cover the surface of the earth, so that you will be unable to see the ground. They will eat the remainder of what escaped – what is left over for you – from the hail, and they will eat every tree that grows for you from the field.  
Exo 10:6 They will fill your houses, the houses of your servants, and all the houses of Egypt, such as neither your fathers nor your grandfathers have seen since they have been in the land until this day!’” Then Moses turned and went out from Pharaoh.  
Exo 10:7 Pharaoh’s servants said to him, “How long will this man be a menace to us? Release the people so that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not know that Egypt is destroyed?”  
Exo 10:8 So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, “Go, serve the Lord your God. Exactly who is going with you?” 
Exo 10:9 Moses said, “We will go with our young and our old, with our sons and our daughters, and with our sheep and our cattle we will go, because we are to hold a pilgrim feast for the Lord.” 
Exo 10:10 He said to them, “The Lord will need to be with you if I release you and your dependents! Watch out! Trouble is right in front of you! 
Exo 10:11 No! Go, you men only, and serve the Lord, for that is what you want.” Then Moses and Aaron were driven out of Pharaoh’s presence.  
Exo 10:12 The Lord said to Moses, “Extend your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up over the land of Egypt and eat everything that grows in the ground, everything that the hail has left.”  
Exo 10:13 So Moses extended his staff over the land of Egypt, and then the Lord brought an east wind on the land all that day and all night. The morning came, and the east wind had brought up the locusts!  
Exo 10:14 The locusts went up over all the land of Egypt and settled down in all the territory of Egypt. It was very severe; there had been no locusts like them before, nor will there be such ever again. 
Exo 10:15 They covered the surface of all the ground, so that the ground became dark with them, and they ate all the vegetation of the ground and all the fruit of the trees that the hail had left. Nothing green remained on the trees or on anything that grew in the fields throughout the whole land of Egypt.  
Exo 10:16  Then Pharaoh quickly summoned Moses and Aaron and said, “I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you! 
Exo 10:17 So now, forgive my sin this time only, and pray to the Lord your God that he would only take this death away from me.” 
Exo 10:18 Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord, 
Exo 10:19 and the Lord turned a very strong west wind, and it picked up the locusts and blew them into the Red Sea. Not one locust remained in all the territory of Egypt.  
Exo 10:20 But the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he did not release the Israelites.  
Exo 10:21  The Lord said to Moses, “Extend your hand toward heaven so that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness so thick it can be felt.”  
Exo 10:22 So Moses extended his hand toward heaven, and there was absolute darkness throughout the land of Egypt for three days.  
Exo 10:23 No one could see another person, and no one could rise from his place for three days. But the Israelites had light in the places where they lived. 
Exo 10:24 Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and said, “Go, serve the Lord – only your flocks and herds will be detained. Even your families may go with you.” 
Exo 10:25 But Moses said, “Will you also provide us with sacrifices and burnt offerings that we may present them to the Lord our God?  
Exo 10:26 Our livestock must also go with us! Not a hoof is to be left behind! For we must take these animals to serve the Lord our God. Until we arrive there, we do not know what we must use to serve the Lord.”  
Exo 10:27 But the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he was not willing to release them. 
Exo 10:28 Pharaoh said to him, “Go from me! Watch out for yourself! Do not appear before me again, for when you see my face you will die!”  
Exo 10:29 Moses said, “As you wish! I will not see your face again.”  
Exo 11:1  The Lord said to Moses, “I will bring one more plague on Pharaoh and on Egypt; after that he will release you from this place. When he releases you, he will drive you out completely from this place. 
Exo 11:2 Instruct the people that each man and each woman is to request from his or her neighbor items of silver and gold.”  
Exo 11:3  (Now the Lord granted the people favor with the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, respected by Pharaoh’s servants and by the Egyptian people.)  
Exo 11:4 Moses said, “This is what the Lord has said: ‘About midnight I will go throughout Egypt,  
Exo 11:5 and all the firstborn in the land of Egypt will die, from the firstborn son of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, to the firstborn son of the slave girl who is at her hand mill, and all the firstborn of the cattle.  
Exo 11:6 There will be a great cry throughout the whole land of Egypt, such as there has never been, nor ever will be again.  
Exo 11:7 But against any of the Israelites not even a dog will bark against either people or animals, so that you may know that the Lord distinguishes between Egypt and Israel.’  
Exo 11:8 All these your servants will come down to me and bow down to me, saying, ‘Go, you and all the people who follow you,’ and after that I will go out.” Then Moses went out from Pharaoh in great anger.  
Exo 11:9 The Lord said to Moses, “Pharaoh will not listen to you, so that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.”  
Exo 11:10 So Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, but the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he did not release the Israelites from his land.  
Exo 12:1  The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt,  
Exo 12:2 “This month is to be your beginning of months; it will be your first month of the year.  
Exo 12:3 Tell the whole community of Israel, ‘In the tenth day of this month they each must take a lamb for themselves according to their families – a lamb for each household.  
Exo 12:4 If any household is too small for a lamb, the man and his next-door neighbor are to take a lamb according to the number of people – you will make your count for the lamb according to how much each one can eat.  
Exo 12:5 Your lamb must be perfect, a male, one year old; you may take it from the sheep or from the goats.  
Exo 12:6 You must care for it until the fourteenth day of this month, and then the whole community of Israel will kill it around sundown.  
Exo 12:7 They will take some of the blood and put it on the two side posts and top of the doorframe of the houses where they will eat it. 
Exo 12:8 They will eat the meat the same night; they will eat it roasted over the fire with bread made without yeast and with bitter herbs.  
Exo 12:9 Do not eat it raw or boiled in water, but roast it over the fire with its head, its legs, and its entrails.  
Exo 12:10 You must leave nothing until morning, but you must burn with fire whatever remains of it until morning.  
Exo 12:11 This is how you are to eat it – dressed to travel, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. You are to eat it in haste. It is the Lord’s Passover.  
Exo 12:12 I will pass through the land of Egypt in the same night, and I will attack all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both of humans and of animals, and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. 
Exo 12:13 The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are, so that when I see the blood I will pass over you, and this plague will not fall on you to destroy you when I attack the land of Egypt.  
Exo 12:14 This day will become a memorial for you, and you will celebrate it as a festival to the Lord – you will celebrate it perpetually as a lasting ordinance.  
Exo 12:15 For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast. Surely on the first day you must put away yeast from your houses because anyone who eats bread made with yeast from the first day to the seventh day will be cut off from Israel.  
Exo 12:16 On the first day there will be a holy convocation, and on the seventh day there will be a holy convocation for you. You must do no work of any kind on them, only what every person will eat – that alone may be prepared for you. 
Exo 12:17 So you will keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, because on this very day I brought your regiments out from the land of Egypt, and so you must keep this day perpetually as a lasting ordinance.  
Exo 12:18 In the first month, from the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening, you will eat bread made without yeast until the twenty-first day of the month in the evening.  
Exo 12:19 For seven days yeast must not be found in your houses, for whoever eats what is made with yeast – that person will be cut off from the community of Israel, whether a resident foreigner or one born in the land.  
Exo 12:20 You will not eat anything made with yeast; in all the places where you live you must eat bread made without yeast.’”  
Exo 12:21 Then Moses summoned all the elders of Israel, and told them, “Go and select for yourselves a lamb or young goat for your families, and kill the Passover animals.  
Exo 12:22 Take a branch of hyssop, dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and apply to the top of the doorframe and the two side posts some of the blood that is in the basin. Not one of you is to go out the door of his house until morning.  
Exo 12:23 For the Lord will pass through to strike Egypt, and when he sees the blood on the top of the doorframe and the two side posts, then the Lord will pass over the door, and he will not permit the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you. 
Exo 12:24 You must observe this event as an ordinance for you and for your children forever.  
Exo 12:25 When you enter the land that the Lord will give to you, just as he said, you must observe this ceremony.  
Exo 12:26 When your children ask you, ‘What does this ceremony mean to you?’ – 
Exo 12:27 then you will say, ‘It is the sacrifice of the Lord’s Passover, when he passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt, when he struck Egypt and delivered our households.’” The people bowed down low to the ground,  
Exo 12:28 and the Israelites went away and did exactly as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron.  
Exo 12:29  It happened at midnight – the Lord attacked all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the prison, and all the firstborn of the cattle.  
Exo 12:30 Pharaoh got up in the night, along with all his servants and all Egypt, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was no house in which there was not someone dead.  
Exo 12:31 Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron in the night and said, “Get up, get out from among my people, both you and the Israelites! Go, serve the Lord as you have requested!  
Exo 12:32 Also, take your flocks and your herds, just as you have requested, and leave. But bless me also.”  
Exo 12:33 The Egyptians were urging the people on, in order to send them out of the land quickly, for they were saying, “We are all dead!”  
Exo 12:34 So the people took their dough before the yeast was added, with their kneading troughs bound up in their clothing on their shoulders.  
Exo 12:35 Now the Israelites had done as Moses told them – they had requested from the Egyptians silver and gold items and clothing.  
Exo 12:36 The Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and they gave them whatever they wanted, and so they plundered Egypt.  
Exo 12:37 The Israelites journeyed from Rameses to Sukkoth. There were about 600,000 men on foot, plus their dependents.  
Exo 12:38 A mixed multitude also went up with them, and flocks and herds – a very large number of cattle.  
Exo 12:39 They baked cakes of bread without yeast using the dough they had brought from Egypt, for it was made without yeast – because they were thrust out of Egypt and were not able to delay, they could not prepare food for themselves either. 
Exo 12:40 Now the length of time the Israelites lived in Egypt was 430 years.  
Exo 12:41 At the end of the 430 years, on the very day, all the regiments of the Lord went out of the land of Egypt.  
Exo 12:42 It was a night of vigil for the Lord to bring them out from the land of Egypt, and so on this night all Israel is to keep the vigil to the Lord for generations to come. 
Exo 12:43  The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the ordinance of the Passover. No foreigner may share in eating it. 
Exo 12:44 But everyone’s servant who is bought for money, after you have circumcised him, may eat it. 
Exo 12:45 A foreigner and a hired worker must not eat it. 
Exo 12:46 It must be eaten in one house; you must not bring any of the meat outside the house, and you must not break a bone of it. 
Exo 12:47 The whole community of Israel must observe it. 
Exo 12:48  “When a resident foreigner lives with you and wants to observe the Passover to the Lord, all his males must be circumcised, and then he may approach and observe it, and he will be like one who is born in the land – but no uncircumcised person may eat of it. 
Exo 12:49 The same law will apply to the person who is native-born and to the resident foreigner who lives among you.” 
Exo 12:50 So all the Israelites did exactly as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron.  
Exo 12:51 And on this very day the Lord brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their regiments.  
Exo 13:1  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 13:2 “Set apart to me every firstborn male – the first offspring of every womb among the Israelites, whether human or animal; it is mine.” 
Exo 13:3 Moses said to the people, “Remember this day on which you came out from Egypt, from the place where you were enslaved, for the Lord brought you out of there with a mighty hand – and no bread made with yeast may be eaten.  
Exo 13:4 On this day, in the month of Abib, you are going out.  
Exo 13:5 When the Lord brings you to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Hivites, and Jebusites, which he swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, then you will keep this ceremony in this month.  
Exo 13:6 For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, and on the seventh day there is to be a festival to the Lord. 
Exo 13:7 Bread made without yeast must be eaten for seven days; no bread made with yeast shall be seen among you, and you must have no yeast among you within any of your borders.  
Exo 13:8 You are to tell your son on that day, ‘It is because of what the Lord did for me when I came out of Egypt.’  
Exo 13:9  It will be a sign for you on your hand and a memorial on your forehead, so that the law of the Lord may be in your mouth, for with a mighty hand the Lord brought you out of Egypt.  
Exo 13:10 So you must keep this ordinance at its appointed time from year to year.  
Exo 13:11 When the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and to your fathers, and gives it to you, 
Exo 13:12 then you must give over to the Lord the first offspring of every womb. Every firstling of a beast that you have – the males will be the Lord’s.  
Exo 13:13 Every firstling of a donkey you must redeem with a lamb, and if you do not redeem it, then you must break its neck. Every firstborn of your sons you must redeem.  
Exo 13:14  In the future, when your son asks you ‘What is this?’ you are to tell him, ‘With a mighty hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the land of slavery.  
Exo 13:15 When Pharaoh stubbornly refused to release us, the Lord killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of people to the firstborn of animals. That is why I am sacrificing to the Lord the first male offspring of every womb, but all my firstborn sons I redeem.’  
Exo 13:16 It will be for a sign on your hand and for frontlets on your forehead, for with a mighty hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt.”  
Exo 13:17  When Pharaoh released the people, God did not lead them by the way to the land of the Philistines, although that was nearby, for God said, “Lest the people change their minds and return to Egypt when they experience war.”  
Exo 13:18 So God brought the people around by the way of the wilderness to the Red Sea, and the Israelites went up from the land of Egypt prepared for battle.  
Exo 13:19 Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph had made the Israelites solemnly swear, “God will surely attend to you, and you will carry my bones up from this place with you.” 
Exo 13:20 They journeyed from Sukkoth and camped in Etham, on the edge of the desert.  
Exo 13:21 Now the Lord was going before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them in the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they could travel day or night.  
Exo 13:22 He did not remove the pillar of cloud by day nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people.  
Exo 14:1  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 14:2 “Tell the Israelites that they must turn and camp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea; you are to camp by the sea before Baal Zephon opposite it. 
Exo 14:3 Pharaoh will think regarding the Israelites, ‘They are wandering around confused in the land – the desert has closed in on them.’ 
Exo 14:4 I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he will chase after them. I will gain honor because of Pharaoh and because of all his army, and the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord.” So this is what they did.  
Exo 14:5 When it was reported to the king of Egypt that the people had fled, the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was turned against the people, and the king and his servants said, “What in the world have we done? For we have released the people of Israel from serving us!” 
Exo 14:6 Then he prepared his chariots and took his army with him. 
Exo 14:7 He took six hundred select chariots, and all the rest of the chariots of Egypt, and officers on all of them. 
Exo 14:8 But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he chased after the Israelites. Now the Israelites were going out defiantly.  
Exo 14:9 The Egyptians chased after them, and all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army overtook them camping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal Zephon.  
Exo 14:10 When Pharaoh got closer, the Israelites looked up, and there were the Egyptians marching after them, and they were terrified. The Israelites cried out to the Lord,  
Exo 14:11 and they said to Moses, “Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the desert? What in the world have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt?  
Exo 14:12 Isn’t this what we told you in Egypt, ‘Leave us alone so that we can serve the Egyptians, because it is better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert!’”  
Exo 14:13 Moses said to the people, “Do not fear! Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord that he will provide for you today; for the Egyptians that you see today you will never, ever see again.  
Exo 14:14 The Lord will fight for you, and you can be still.”  
Exo 14:15 The Lord said to Moses, “Why do you cry out to me? Tell the Israelites to move on. 
Exo 14:16 And as for you, lift up your staff and extend your hand toward the sea and divide it, so that the Israelites may go through the middle of the sea on dry ground.  
Exo 14:17 And as for me, I am going to harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will come after them, that I may be honored because of Pharaoh and his army and his chariots and his horsemen.  
Exo 14:18 And the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord when I have gained my honor because of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.”  
Exo 14:19 The angel of God, who was going before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them. 
Exo 14:20 It came between the Egyptian camp and the Israelite camp; it was a dark cloud and it lit up the night so that one camp did not come near the other the whole night.  
Exo 14:21 Moses stretched out his hand toward the sea, and the Lord drove the sea apart by a strong east wind all that night, and he made the sea into dry land, and the water was divided.  
Exo 14:22 So the Israelites went through the middle of the sea on dry ground, the water forming a wall for them on their right and on their left.  
Exo 14:23 The Egyptians chased them and followed them into the middle of the sea – all the horses of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.  
Exo 14:24 In the morning watch the Lord looked down on the Egyptian army through the pillar of fire and cloud, and he threw the Egyptian army into a panic.  
Exo 14:25 He jammed the wheels of their chariots so that they had difficulty driving, and the Egyptians said, “Let’s flee from Israel, for the Lord fights for them against Egypt!”  
Exo 14:26 The Lord said to Moses, “Extend your hand toward the sea, so that the waters may flow back on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen!”  
Exo 14:27 So Moses extended his hand toward the sea, and the sea returned to its normal state when the sun began to rise. Now the Egyptians were fleeing before it, but the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the middle of the sea.  
Exo 14:28 The water returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen and all the army of Pharaoh that was coming after the Israelites into the sea – not so much as one of them survived!  
Exo 14:29 But the Israelites walked on dry ground in the middle of the sea, the water forming a wall for them on their right and on their left.  
Exo 14:30 So the Lord saved Israel on that day from the power of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the shore of the sea.  
Exo 14:31 When Israel saw the great power that the Lord had exercised over the Egyptians, they feared the Lord, and they believed in the Lord and in his servant Moses.  
Exo 15:1  Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to the Lord. They said, “I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously, the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.  
Exo 15:2 The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.This is my God, and I will praise him, my father’s God, and I will exalt him. 
Exo 15:3 The Lord is a warrior, the Lord is his name.  
Exo 15:4 The chariots of Pharaoh and his army he has thrown into the sea,and his chosen officers were drowned in the Red Sea.  
Exo 15:5 The depths have covered them, they went down to the bottom like a stone.  
Exo 15:6 Your right hand, O Lord, was majestic in power,your right hand, O Lord, shattered the enemy.  
Exo 15:7 In the abundance of your majesty you have overthrown those who rise up against you. You sent forth your wrath; it consumed them like stubble.  
Exo 15:8 By the blast of your nostrils the waters were piled up,the flowing water stood upright like a heap, and the deep waters were solidified in the heart of the sea.  
Exo 15:9 The enemy said, ‘I will chase, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil;my desire will be satisfied on them.I will draw my sword, my hand will destroy them.’  
Exo 15:10 But you blew with your breath, and the sea covered them.They sank like lead in the mighty waters.  
Exo 15:11 Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you? – majestic in holiness, fearful in praises, working wonders?  
Exo 15:12 You stretched out your right hand,the earth swallowed them. 
Exo 15:13 By your loyal love you will lead the people whom you have redeemed;you will guide them by your strength to your holy dwelling place. 
Exo 15:14 The nations will hear and tremble;anguish will seize the inhabitants of Philistia.  
Exo 15:15 Then the chiefs of Edom will be terrified, trembling will seize the leaders of Moab,and the inhabitants of Canaan will shake.  
Exo 15:16 Fear and dread will fall on them;by the greatness of your arm they will be as still as stone until your people pass by, O Lord,until the people whom you have bought pass by. 
Exo 15:17 You will bring them in and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance,in the place you made for your residence, O Lord,the sanctuary, O Lord, that your hands have established.  
Exo 15:18 The Lord will reign forever and ever!  
Exo 15:19 For the horses of Pharaoh came with his chariots and his footmen into the sea,and the Lord brought back the waters of the sea on them,but the Israelites walked on dry land in the middle of the sea.”  
Exo 15:20 Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a hand-drum in her hand, and all the women went out after her with hand-drums and with dances.  
Exo 15:21 Miriam sang in response to them, “Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.”  
Exo 15:22  Then Moses led Israel to journey away from the Red Sea. They went out to the wilderness of Shur, walked for three days into the wilderness, and found no water.  
Exo 15:23 Then they came to Marah, but they were not able to drink the waters of Marah, because they were bitter. (That is why its name was Marah.)  
Exo 15:24 So the people murmured against Moses, saying, “What can we drink?”  
Exo 15:25 He cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree. When Moses threw it into the water, the water became safe to drink. There the Lord made for them a binding ordinance, and there he tested them. 
Exo 15:26 He said, “If you will diligently obey the Lord your God, and do what is right in his sight, and pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, then all the diseases that I brought on the Egyptians I will not bring on you, for I, the Lord, am your healer.”  
Exo 15:27 Then they came to Elim, where there were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there by the water.  
Exo 16:1  When they journeyed from Elim, the entire company of Israelites came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their exodus from the land of Egypt.  
Exo 16:2 The entire company of Israelites murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.  
Exo 16:3 The Israelites said to them, “If only we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the pots of meat, when we ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger!”  
Exo 16:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, “I am going to rain bread from heaven for you, and the people will go out and gather the amount for each day, so that I may test them. Will they walk in my law or not?  
Exo 16:5 On the sixth day they will prepare what they bring in, and it will be twice as much as they gather every other day.”  
Exo 16:6 Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, “In the evening you will know that the Lord has brought you out of the land of Egypt,  
Exo 16:7 and in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your murmurings against the Lord. As for us, what are we, that you should murmur against us?” 
Exo 16:8 Moses said, “You will know this when the Lord gives you meat to eat in the evening and bread in the morning to satisfy you, because the Lord has heard your murmurings that you are murmuring against him. As for us, what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against the Lord.” 
Exo 16:9 Then Moses said to Aaron, “Tell the whole community of the Israelites, ‘Come before the Lord, because he has heard your murmurings.’”  
Exo 16:10 As Aaron spoke to the whole community of the Israelites and they looked toward the wilderness, there the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud,  
Exo 16:11 and the Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 16:12 “I have heard the murmurings of the Israelites. Tell them, ‘During the evening you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be satisfied with bread, so that you may know that I am the Lord your God.’”  
Exo 16:13 In the evening the quail came up and covered the camp, and in the morning a layer of dew was all around the camp.  
Exo 16:14 When the layer of dew had evaporated, there on the surface of the wilderness was a thin flaky substance, thin like frost on the earth.  
Exo 16:15 When the Israelites saw it, they said to one another, “What is it?” because they did not know what it was. Moses said to them, “It is the bread that the Lord has given you for food.  
Exo 16:16  “This is what the Lord has commanded: ‘Each person is to gather from it what he can eat, an omer per person according to the number of your people; each one will pick it up for whoever lives in his tent.’”  
Exo 16:17 The Israelites did so, and they gathered – some more, some less.  
Exo 16:18 When they measured with an omer, the one who gathered much had nothing left over, and the one who gathered little lacked nothing; each one had gathered what he could eat.  
Exo 16:19 Moses said to them, “No one is to keep any of it until morning.”  
Exo 16:20 But they did not listen to Moses; some kept part of it until morning, and it was full of worms and began to stink, and Moses was angry with them. 
Exo 16:21 So they gathered it each morning, each person according to what he could eat, and when the sun got hot, it would melt.  
Exo 16:22 And on the sixth day they gathered twice as much food, two omers per person; and all the leaders of the community came and told Moses.  
Exo 16:23 He said to them, “This is what the Lord has said: ‘Tomorrow is a time of cessation from work, a holy Sabbath to the Lord. Whatever you want to bake, bake today; whatever you want to boil, boil today; whatever is left put aside for yourselves to be kept until morning.’”  
Exo 16:24 So they put it aside until the morning, just as Moses had commanded, and it did not stink, nor were there any worms in it. 
Exo 16:25 Moses said, “Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lord; today you will not find it in the area.  
Exo 16:26 Six days you will gather it, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will not be any.” 
Exo 16:27 On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather it, but they found nothing. 
Exo 16:28 So the Lord said to Moses, “How long do you refuse to obey my commandments and my instructions?  
Exo 16:29 See, because the Lord has given you the Sabbath, that is why he is giving you food for two days on the sixth day. Each of you stay where you are; let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.”  
Exo 16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day.  
Exo 16:31 The house of Israel called its name “manna.” It was like coriander seed and was white, and it tasted like wafers with honey.  
Exo 16:32 Moses said, “This is what the Lord has commanded: ‘Fill an omer with it to be kept for generations to come, so that they may see the food I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out from the land of Egypt.’”  
Exo 16:33 Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar and put in it an omer full of manna, and place it before the Lord to be kept for generations to come.” 
Exo 16:34 Just as the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the Testimony for safekeeping.  
Exo 16:35 Now the Israelites ate manna forty years, until they came to a land that was inhabited; they ate manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan.  
Exo 16:36 (Now an omer is one tenth of an ephah.)  
Exo 17:1  The whole community of the Israelites traveled on their journey from the wilderness of Sin according to the Lord’s instruction, and they pitched camp in Rephidim. Now there was no water for the people to drink.  
Exo 17:2 So the people contended with Moses, and they said, “Give us water to drink!” Moses said to them, “Why do you contend with me? Why do you test the Lord?” 
Exo 17:3 But the people were very thirsty there for water, and they murmured against Moses and said, “Why in the world did you bring us up from Egypt – to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?”  
Exo 17:4 Then Moses cried out to the Lord, “What will I do with this people? – a little more and they will stone me!” 
Exo 17:5 The Lord said to Moses, “Go over before the people; take with you some of the elders of Israel and take in your hand your staff with which you struck the Nile and go.  
Exo 17:6 I will be standing before you there on the rock in Horeb, and you will strike the rock, and water will come out of it so that the people may drink.” And Moses did so in plain view of the elders of Israel.  
Exo 17:7 He called the name of the place Massah and Meribah, because of the contending of the Israelites and because of their testing the Lord, saying, “Is the Lord among us or not?”  
Exo 17:8  Amalek came and attacked Israel in Rephidim.  
Exo 17:9 So Moses said to Joshua, “Choose some of our men and go out, fight against Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hand.”  
Exo 17:10 So Joshua fought against Amalek just as Moses had instructed him, and Moses and Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill.  
Exo 17:11 Whenever Moses would raise his hands, then Israel prevailed, but whenever he would rest his hands, then Amalek prevailed.  
Exo 17:12 When the hands of Moses became heavy, they took a stone and put it under him, and Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one on one side and one on the other, and so his hands were steady until the sun went down.  
Exo 17:13 So Joshua destroyed Amalek and his army with the sword.  
Exo 17:14 The Lord said to Moses, “Write this as a memorial in the book, and rehearse it in Joshua’s hearing; for I will surely wipe out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.  
Exo 17:15 Moses built an altar, and he called it “The Lord is my Banner,”  
Exo 17:16 for he said, “For a hand was lifted up to the throne of the Lord – that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.”  
Exo 18:1  Jethro,  the priest of Midian, Moses’ father-in-law, heard about all that God had done for Moses and for his people Israel, that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt.  
Exo 18:2 Jethro,  Moses’ father-in-law, took Moses’ wife Zipporah after he had sent her back,  
Exo 18:3 and her two sons, one of whom was named Gershom (for Moses had said, “I have been a foreigner in a foreign land”),  
Exo 18:4 and the other Eliezer (for Moses had said, “The God of my father has been my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh”).  
Exo 18:5 Jethro,  Moses’ father-in-law, together with Moses’ sons and his wife, came to Moses in the wilderness where he was camping by the mountain of God.  
Exo 18:6 He said to Moses, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you, along with your wife and her two sons with her.” 
Exo 18:7 Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed down and kissed him; they each asked about the other’s welfare, and then they went into the tent.  
Exo 18:8 Moses told his father-in-law all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh and to Egypt for Israel’s sake, and all the hardship that had come on them along the way, and how the Lord had delivered them. 
Exo 18:9 Jethro rejoiced because of all the good that the Lord had done for Israel, whom he had delivered from the hand of Egypt.  
Exo 18:10 Jethro said, “Blessed be the Lord who has delivered you from the hand of Egypt, and from the hand of Pharaoh, who has delivered the people from the Egyptians’ control!  
Exo 18:11 Now I know that the Lord is greater than all the gods, for in the thing in which they dealt proudly against them he has destroyed them.” 
Exo 18:12 Then Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, brought a burnt offering and sacrifices for God, and Aaron and all the elders of Israel came to eat food with the father-in-law of Moses before God.  
Exo 18:13 On the next day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from morning until evening.  
Exo 18:14 When Moses’ father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, “What is this that you are doing for the people? Why are you sitting by yourself, and all the people stand around you from morning until evening?”  
Exo 18:15 Moses said to his father-in-law, “Because the people come to me to inquire of God.  
Exo 18:16 When they have a dispute, it comes to me and I decide between a man and his neighbor, and I make known the decrees of God and his laws.”  
Exo 18:17 Moses’ father-in-law said to him, “What you are doing is not good!  
Exo 18:18 You will surely wear out, both you and these people who are with you, for this is too heavy a burden for you; you are not able to do it by yourself.  
Exo 18:19 Now listen to me, I will give you advice, and may God be with you: You be a representative for the people to God, and you bring their disputes to God;  
Exo 18:20 warn them of the statutes and the laws, and make known to them the way in which they must walk and the work they must do.  
Exo 18:21 But you choose from the people capable men, God-fearing, men of truth, those who hate bribes, and put them over the people as rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.  
Exo 18:22 They will judge the people under normal circumstances, and every difficult case they will bring to you, but every small case they themselves will judge, so that you may make it easier for yourself, and they will bear the burden with you. 
Exo 18:23 If you do this thing, and God so commands you, then you will be able to endure, and all these people will be able to go home satisfied.”  
Exo 18:24 Moses listened to his father-in-law and did everything he had said.  
Exo 18:25 Moses chose capable men from all Israel, and he made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.  
Exo 18:26 They judged the people under normal circumstances; the difficult cases they would bring to Moses, but every small case they would judge themselves.  
Exo 18:27 Then Moses sent his father-in-law on his way, and so Jethro went to his own land.  
Exo 19:1  In the third month after the Israelites went out from the land of Egypt, on the very day, they came to the desert of Sinai.  
Exo 19:2 After they journeyed from Rephidim, they came to the desert of Sinai, and they camped in the desert; Israel camped there in front of the mountain.  
Exo 19:3 Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain, “Thus you will tell the house of Jacob, and declare to the people of Israel:  
Exo 19:4 ‘You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt and how I lifted you on eagles’ wings and brought you to myself. 
Exo 19:5 And now, if you will diligently listen to me and keep my covenant, then you will be my special possession out of all the nations, for all the earth is mine, 
Exo 19:6 and you will be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words that you will speak to the Israelites.”  
Exo 19:7 So Moses came and summoned the elders of Israel. He set before them all these words that the Lord had commanded him, 
Exo 19:8 and all the people answered together, “All that the Lord has commanded we will do!” So Moses brought the words of the people back to the Lord. 
Exo 19:9 The Lord said to Moses, “I am going to come to you in a dense cloud, so that the people may hear when I speak with you and so that they will always believe in you.” And Moses told the words of the people to the Lord. 
Exo 19:10 The Lord said to Moses, “Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and make them wash their clothes  
Exo 19:11 and be ready for the third day, for on the third day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people.  
Exo 19:12 You must set boundaries for the people all around, saying, ‘Take heed to yourselves not to go up on the mountain nor touch its edge. Whoever touches the mountain will surely be put to death!  
Exo 19:13 No hand will touch him – but he will surely be stoned or shot through, whether a beast or a human being; he must not live.’ When the ram’s horn sounds a long blast they may go up on the mountain.”  
Exo 19:14 Then Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes.  
Exo 19:15 He said to the people, “Be ready for the third day. Do not approach your wives for marital relations.”  
Exo 19:16 On the third day in the morning there was thunder and lightning and a dense cloud on the mountain, and the sound of a very loud horn; all the people who were in the camp trembled.  
Exo 19:17 Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their place at the foot of the mountain.  
Exo 19:18 Now Mount Sinai was completely covered with smoke because the Lord had descended on it in fire, and its smoke went up like the smoke of a great furnace, and the whole mountain shook violently.  
Exo 19:19 When the sound of the horn grew louder and louder, Moses was speaking and God was answering him with a voice.  
Exo 19:20 The Lord came down on Mount Sinai, on the top of the mountain, and the Lord summoned Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up.  
Exo 19:21 The Lord said to Moses, “Go down and solemnly warn the people, lest they force their way through to the Lord to look, and many of them perish.  
Exo 19:22 Let the priests also, who approach the Lord, sanctify themselves, lest the Lord break through against them.” 
Exo 19:23 Moses said to the Lord, “The people are not able to come up to Mount Sinai, because you solemnly warned us, ‘Set boundaries for the mountain and set it apart.’”  
Exo 19:24 The Lord said to him, “Go, get down, and come up, and Aaron with you, but do not let the priests and the people force their way through to come up to the Lord, lest he break through against them.” 
Exo 19:25 So Moses went down to the people and spoke to them.  
Exo 20:1  God spoke all these words:  
Exo 20:2  “I, the Lord, am your God, who brought you from the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery.  
Exo 20:3  “You shall have no other gods before me. 
Exo 20:4  “You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is on the earth beneath or that is in the water below.  
Exo 20:5 You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God, responding to the transgression of fathers by dealing with children to the third and fourth generations of those who reject me,  
Exo 20:6 and showing covenant faithfulness to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments.  
Exo 20:7  “You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold guiltless anyone who takes his name in vain.  
Exo 20:8  “Remember the Sabbath day to set it apart as holy. 
Exo 20:9 For six days you may labor and do all your work,  
Exo 20:10 but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God; on it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant, or your cattle, or the resident foreigner who is in your gates.  
Exo 20:11 For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth and the sea and all that is in them, and he rested on the seventh day; therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and set it apart as holy. 
Exo 20:12  “Honor your father and your mother, that you may live a long time in the land the Lord your God is giving to you. 
Exo 20:13  “You shall not murder.  
Exo 20:14  “You shall not commit adultery.  
Exo 20:15  “You shall not steal.  
Exo 20:16  “You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.  
Exo 20:17  “You shall not covet your neighbor’s house. You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that belongs to your neighbor.”  
Exo 20:18 All the people were seeing the thundering and the lightning, and heard the sound of the horn, and saw the mountain smoking – and when the people saw it they trembled with fear and kept their distance.  
Exo 20:19 They said to Moses, “You speak to us and we will listen, but do not let God speak with us, lest we die.”  
Exo 20:20 Moses said to the people, “Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you so that you do not sin.”  
Exo 20:21 The people kept their distance, but Moses drew near the thick darkness where God was. 
Exo 20:22  The Lord said to Moses: “Thus you will tell the Israelites: ‘You yourselves have seen that I have spoken with you from heaven.  
Exo 20:23 You must not make gods of silver alongside me, nor make gods of gold for yourselves. 
Exo 20:24  ‘You must make for me an altar made of earth, and you will sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your cattle. In every place where I cause my name to be honored I will come to you and I will bless you. 
Exo 20:25 If you make me an altar of stone, you must not build it of stones shaped with tools, for if you use your tool on it you have defiled it. 
Exo 20:26 And you must not go up by steps to my altar, so that your nakedness is not exposed.’  
Exo 21:1  “These are the decisions that you will set before them: 
Exo 21:2  “If you buy a Hebrew servant, he is to serve you for six years, but in the seventh year he will go out free without paying anything. 
Exo 21:3 If he came in by himself he will go out by himself; if he had a wife when he came in, then his wife will go out with him. 
Exo 21:4 If his master gave him a wife, and she bore sons or daughters, the wife and the children will belong to her master, and he will go out by himself.  
Exo 21:5 But if the servant should declare, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,’  
Exo 21:6 then his master must bring him to the judges, and he will bring him to the door or the doorpost, and his master will pierce his ear with an awl, and he shall serve him forever.  
Exo 21:7  “If a man sells his daughter as a female servant, she will not go out as the male servants do. 
Exo 21:8 If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he must let her be redeemed. He has no right to sell her to a foreign nation, because he has dealt deceitfully with her. 
Exo 21:9 If he designated her for his son, then he will deal with her according to the customary rights of daughters.  
Exo 21:10 If he takes another wife, he must not diminish the first one’s food, her clothing, or her marital rights.  
Exo 21:11 If he does not provide her with these three things, then she will go out free, without paying money.  
Exo 21:12  “Whoever strikes someone so that he dies must surely be put to death.  
Exo 21:13 But if he does not do it with premeditation, but it happens by accident, then I will appoint for you a place where he may flee.  
Exo 21:14 But if a man willfully attacks his neighbor to kill him cunningly, you will take him even from my altar that he may die.  
Exo 21:15  “Whoever strikes his father or his mother must surely be put to death.  
Exo 21:16  “Whoever kidnaps someone and sells him, or is caught still holding him, must surely be put to death.  
Exo 21:17  “Whoever treats his father or his mother disgracefully must surely be put to death.  
Exo 21:18  “If men fight, and one strikes his neighbor with a stone or with his fist and he does not die, but must remain in bed,  
Exo 21:19 and then if he gets up and walks about outside on his staff, then the one who struck him is innocent, except he must pay for the injured person’s loss of time and see to it that he is fully healed.  
Exo 21:20  “If a man strikes his male servant or his female servant with a staff so that he or she dies as a result of the blow, he will surely be punished.  
Exo 21:21 However, if the injured servant survives one or two days, the owner will not be punished, for he has suffered the loss. 
Exo 21:22  “If men fight and hit a pregnant woman and her child is born prematurely, but there is no serious injury, he will surely be punished in accordance with what the woman’s husband demands of him, and he will pay what the court decides.  
Exo 21:23 But if there is serious injury, then you will give a life for a life,  
Exo 21:24 eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,  
Exo 21:25 burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise.  
Exo 21:26  “If a man strikes the eye of his male servant or his female servant so that he destroys it, he will let the servant go free as compensation for the eye.  
Exo 21:27 If he knocks out the tooth of his male servant or his female servant, he will let the servant go free as compensation for the tooth.  
Exo 21:28  “If an ox gores a man or a woman so that either dies, then the ox must surely be stoned and its flesh must not be eaten, but the owner of the ox will be acquitted.  
Exo 21:29 But if the ox had the habit of goring, and its owner was warned, and he did not take the necessary precautions, and then it killed a man or a woman, the ox must be stoned and the man must be put to death.  
Exo 21:30 If a ransom is set for him, then he must pay the redemption for his life according to whatever amount was set for him.  
Exo 21:31 If the ox gores a son or a daughter, the owner will be dealt with according to this rule. 
Exo 21:32 If the ox gores a male servant or a female servant, the owner must pay thirty shekels of silver, and the ox must be stoned.  
Exo 21:33  “If a man opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it, 
Exo 21:34 the owner of the pit must repay the loss. He must give money to its owner, and the dead animal will become his. 
Exo 21:35 If the ox of one man injures the ox of his neighbor so that it dies, then they will sell the live ox and divide its proceeds, and they will also divide the dead ox.  
Exo 21:36 Or if it is known that the ox had the habit of goring, and its owner did not take the necessary precautions, he must surely pay ox for ox, and the dead animal will become his. 
Exo 22:1  (21:37) “If a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or sells it, he must pay back five head of cattle for the ox, and four sheep for the one sheep.  
Exo 22:2  “If a thief is caught breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there will be no blood guilt for him. 
Exo 22:3 If the sun has risen on him, then there is blood guilt for him. A thief must surely make full restitution; if he has nothing, then he will be sold for his theft.  
Exo 22:4 If the stolen item should in fact be found alive in his possession, whether it be an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he must pay back double.  
Exo 22:5  “If a man grazes his livestock in a field or a vineyard, and he lets the livestock loose and they graze in the field of another man, he must make restitution from the best of his own field and the best of his own vineyard.  
Exo 22:6  “If a fire breaks out and spreads to thorn bushes, so that stacked grain or standing grain or the whole field is consumed, the one who started the fire must surely make restitution.  
Exo 22:7  “If a man gives his neighbor money or articles for safekeeping, and it is stolen from the man’s house, if the thief is caught, he must repay double.  
Exo 22:8 If the thief is not caught, then the owner of the house will be brought before the judges to see whether he has laid his hand on his neighbor’s goods. 
Exo 22:9 In all cases of illegal possessions, whether for an ox, a donkey, a sheep, a garment, or any kind of lost item, about which someone says ‘This belongs to me,’ the matter of the two of them will come before the judges, and the one whom the judges declare guilty must repay double to his neighbor.  
Exo 22:10 If a man gives his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep, and it dies or is injured or is carried away without anyone seeing it, 
Exo 22:11 then there will be an oath to the Lord between the two of them, that he has not laid his hand on his neighbor’s goods, and its owner will accept this, and he will not have to pay.  
Exo 22:12 But if it was stolen from him, he will pay its owner.  
Exo 22:13 If it is torn in pieces, then he will bring it for evidence, and he will not have to pay for what was torn.  
Exo 22:14  “If a man borrows an animal from his neighbor, and it is hurt or dies when its owner was not with it, the man who borrowed it will surely pay.  
Exo 22:15 If its owner was with it, he will not have to pay; if it was hired, what was paid for the hire covers it. 
Exo 22:16  “If a man seduces a virgin who is not engaged and goes to bed with her, he must surely pay the marriage price for her to be his wife.  
Exo 22:17 If her father refuses to give her to him, he must pay money for the bride price of virgins.  
Exo 22:18  “You must not allow a sorceress to live.  
Exo 22:19  “Whoever has sexual relations with a beast must surely be put to death.  
Exo 22:20  “Whoever sacrifices to a god other than the Lord alone must be utterly destroyed. 
Exo 22:21  “You must not wrong a resident foreigner nor oppress him, for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.  
Exo 22:22  “You must not afflict any widow or orphan.  
Exo 22:23 If you afflict them in any way and they cry to me, I will surely hear their cry,  
Exo 22:24 and my anger will burn and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives will be widows and your children will be fatherless.  
Exo 22:25  “If you lend money to any of my people who are needy among you, do not be like a moneylender to him; do not charge him interest.  
Exo 22:26 If you do take the garment of your neighbor in pledge, you must return it to him by the time the sun goes down,  
Exo 22:27 for it is his only covering – it is his garment for his body. What else can he sleep in? And when he cries out to me, I will hear, for I am gracious.  
Exo 22:28  “You must not blaspheme God or curse the ruler of your people.  
Exo 22:29  “Do not hold back offerings from your granaries or your vats. You must give me the firstborn of your sons.  
Exo 22:30 You must also do this for your oxen and for your sheep; seven days they may remain with their mothers, but give them to me on the eighth day.  
Exo 22:31  “You will be holy people to me; you must not eat any meat torn by animals in the field. You must throw it to the dogs.  
Exo 23:1  “You must not give a false report. Do not make common cause with the wicked to be a malicious witness.  
Exo 23:2  “You must not follow a crowd in doing evil things; in a lawsuit you must not offer testimony that agrees with a crowd so as to pervert justice, 
Exo 23:3 and you must not show partiality to a poor man in his lawsuit.  
Exo 23:4  “If you encounter your enemy’s ox or donkey wandering off, you must by all means return it to him. 
Exo 23:5 If you see the donkey of someone who hates you fallen under its load, you must not ignore him, but be sure to help him with it. 
Exo 23:6  “You must not turn away justice for your poor people in their lawsuits.  
Exo 23:7 Keep your distance from a false charge – do not kill the innocent and the righteous, for I will not justify the wicked.  
Exo 23:8  “You must not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds those who see and subverts the words of the righteous.  
Exo 23:9  “You must not oppress a resident foreigner, since you know the life of a foreigner, for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.  
Exo 23:10  “For six years you are to sow your land and gather in its produce.  
Exo 23:11 But in the seventh year you must let it lie fallow and leave it alone so that the poor of your people may eat, and what they leave any animal in the field may eat; you must do likewise with your vineyard and your olive grove.  
Exo 23:12 For six days you are to do your work, but on the seventh day you must cease, in order that your ox and your donkey may rest and that your female servant’s son and the resident foreigner may refresh themselves. 
Exo 23:13  “Pay attention to do everything I have told you, and do not even mention the names of other gods – do not let them be heard on your lips.  
Exo 23:14  “Three times in the year you must make a pilgrim feast to me. 
Exo 23:15 You are to observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread; seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, as I commanded you, at the appointed time of the month of Abib, for at that time you came out of Egypt. No one may appear before me empty-handed.  
Exo 23:16  “You are also to observe the Feast of Harvest, the firstfruits of your labors that you have sown in the field, and the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year when you have gathered in your harvest out of the field.  
Exo 23:17 At three times in the year all your males will appear before the Sovereign Lord.  
Exo 23:18  “You must not offer the blood of my sacrifice with bread containing yeast; the fat of my festal sacrifice must not remain until morning.  
Exo 23:19 The first of the firstfruits of your soil you must bring to the house of the Lord your God. “You must not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk.  
Exo 23:20  “I am going to send an angel before you to protect you as you journey and to bring you into the place that I have prepared.  
Exo 23:21 Take heed because of him, and obey his voice; do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgressions, for my name is in him. 
Exo 23:22 But if you diligently obey him and do all that I command, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and I will be an adversary to your adversaries.  
Exo 23:23 For my angel will go before you and bring you to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I will destroy them completely.  
Exo 23:24  “You must not bow down to their gods; you must not serve them or do according to their practices. Instead you must completely overthrow them and smash their standing stones to pieces. 
Exo 23:25 You must serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will remove sickness from your midst.  
Exo 23:26 No woman will miscarry her young or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.  
Exo 23:27  “I will send my terror before you, and I will alarm all the people whom you encounter; I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you. 
Exo 23:28 I will send hornets before you that will drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite before you. 
Exo 23:29 I will not drive them out before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the wild animals multiply against you. 
Exo 23:30 Little by little I will drive them out before you, until you become fruitful and inherit the land.  
Exo 23:31 I will set your boundaries from the Red Sea to the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert to the River, for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you will drive them out before you. 
Exo 23:32  “You must make no covenant with them or with their gods.  
Exo 23:33 They must not live in your land, lest they make you sin against me, for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.” 
Exo 24:1  But to Moses the Lord said, “Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from a distance.  
Exo 24:2 Moses alone may come near the Lord, but the others must not come near, nor may the people go up with him.” 
Exo 24:3 Moses came and told the people all the Lord’s words and all the decisions. All the people answered together, “We are willing to do all the words that the Lord has said,”  
Exo 24:4 and Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. Early in the morning he built an altar at the foot of the mountain and arranged twelve standing stones – according to the twelve tribes of Israel.  
Exo 24:5 He sent young Israelite men, and they offered burnt offerings and sacrificed young bulls for peace offerings to the Lord. 
Exo 24:6 Moses took half of the blood and put it in bowls, and half of the blood he splashed on the altar.  
Exo 24:7 He took the Book of the Covenant and read it aloud to the people, and they said, “We are willing to do and obey all that the Lord has spoken.”  
Exo 24:8 So Moses took the blood and splashed it on the people and said, “This is the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words.”  
Exo 24:9 Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and the seventy elders of Israel went up,  
Exo 24:10 and they saw the God of Israel. Under his feet there was something like a pavement made of sapphire, clear like the sky itself. 
Exo 24:11 But he did not lay a hand on the leaders of the Israelites, so they saw God, and they ate and they drank.  
Exo 24:12  The Lord said to Moses, “Come up to me on the mountain and remain there, and I will give you the stone tablets with the law and the commandments that I have written, so that you may teach them.” 
Exo 24:13 So Moses set out with Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up the mountain of God.  
Exo 24:14 He told the elders, “Wait for us in this place until we return to you. Here are Aaron and Hur with you. Whoever has any matters of dispute can approach them.”  
Exo 24:15 Moses went up the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.  
Exo 24:16 The glory of the Lord resided on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it for six days. On the seventh day he called to Moses from within the cloud.  
Exo 24:17 Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in plain view of the people.  
Exo 24:18 Moses went into the cloud when he went up the mountain, and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.  
Exo 25:1  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 25:2 “Tell the Israelites to take an offering for me; from every person motivated by a willing heart you are to receive my offering.  
Exo 25:3 This is the offering you are to accept from them: gold, silver, bronze,  
Exo 25:4 blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goat’s hair, 
Exo 25:5 ram skins dyed red, fine leather, acacia wood,  
Exo 25:6 oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for fragrant incense,  
Exo 25:7 onyx stones, and other gems to be set in the ephod and in the breastpiece.  
Exo 25:8 Let them make for me a sanctuary, so that I may live among them. 
Exo 25:9 According to all that I am showing you – the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furnishings – you must make it exactly so. 
Exo 25:10  “They are to make an ark of acacia wood – its length is to be three feet nine inches, its width two feet three inches, and its height two feet three inches.  
Exo 25:11 You are to overlay it with pure gold – both inside and outside you must overlay it, and you are to make a surrounding border of gold over it.  
Exo 25:12 You are to cast four gold rings for it and put them on its four feet, with two rings on one side and two rings on the other side.  
Exo 25:13 You are to make poles of acacia wood, overlay them with gold,  
Exo 25:14 and put the poles into the rings at the sides of the ark in order to carry the ark with them. 
Exo 25:15 The poles must remain in the rings of the ark; they must not be removed from it. 
Exo 25:16 You are to put into the ark the testimony that I will give to you. 
Exo 25:17  “You are to make an atonement lid of pure gold; its length is to be three feet nine inches, and its width is to be two feet three inches.  
Exo 25:18 You are to make two cherubim of gold; you are to make them of hammered metal on the two ends of the atonement lid.  
Exo 25:19 Make one cherub on one end and one cherub on the other end; from the atonement lid you are to make the cherubim on the two ends.  
Exo 25:20 The cherubim are to be spreading their wings upward, overshadowing the atonement lid with their wings, and the cherubim are to face each other, looking toward the atonement lid.  
Exo 25:21 You are to put the atonement lid on top of the ark, and in the ark you are to put the testimony I am giving you. 
Exo 25:22 I will meet with you there, and from above the atonement lid, from between the two cherubim that are over the ark of the testimony, I will speak with you about all that I will command you for the Israelites.  
Exo 25:23  “You are to make a table of acacia wood; its length is to be three feet, its width one foot six inches, and its height two feet three inches.  
Exo 25:24 You are to overlay it with pure gold, and you are to make a surrounding border of gold for it.  
Exo 25:25 You are to make a surrounding frame for it about three inches broad, and you are to make a surrounding border of gold for its frame.  
Exo 25:26 You are to make four rings of gold for it and attach the rings at the four corners where its four legs are. 
Exo 25:27 The rings are to be close to the frame to provide places for the poles to carry the table.  
Exo 25:28 You are to make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, so that the table may be carried with them. 
Exo 25:29 You are to make its plates, its ladles, its pitchers, and its bowls, to be used in pouring out offerings; you are to make them of pure gold.  
Exo 25:30 You are to set the Bread of the Presence on the table before me continually.  
Exo 25:31  “You are to make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand is to be made of hammered metal; its base and its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms are to be from the same piece.  
Exo 25:32 Six branches are to extend from the sides of the lampstand, three branches of the lampstand from one side of it and three branches of the lampstand from the other side of it. 
Exo 25:33 Three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms are to be on one branch, and three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms are to be on the next branch, and the same for the six branches extending from the lampstand.  
Exo 25:34 On the lampstand there are to be four cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms,  
Exo 25:35 with a bud under the first two branches from it, and a bud under the next two branches from it, and a bud under the third two branches from it, according to the six branches that extend from the lampstand.  
Exo 25:36 Their buds and their branches will be one piece, all of it one hammered piece of pure gold.  
Exo 25:37  “You are to make its seven lamps, and then set its lamps up on it, so that it will give light to the area in front of it. 
Exo 25:38 Its trimmers and its trays are to be of pure gold.  
Exo 25:39 About seventy-five pounds of pure gold is to be used for it and for all these utensils.  
Exo 25:40 Now be sure to make them according to the pattern you were shown on the mountain.  
Exo 26:1  “The tabernacle itself you are to make with ten curtains of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet; you are to make them with cherubim that are the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 26:2 The length of each curtain is to be forty-two feet, and the width of each curtain is to be six feet – the same size for each of the curtains.  
Exo 26:3 Five curtains are to be joined, one to another, and the other five curtains are to be joined, one to another.  
Exo 26:4 You are to make loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in one set, and in the same way you are to make loops in the outer edge of the end curtain in the second set.  
Exo 26:5 You are to make fifty loops on the one curtain, and you are to make fifty loops on the end curtain which is on the second set, so that the loops are opposite one to another.  
Exo 26:6 You are to make fifty gold clasps and join the curtains together with the clasps, so that the tabernacle is a unit.  
Exo 26:7  “You are to make curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; you are to make eleven curtains.  
Exo 26:8 The length of each curtain is to be forty-five feet, and the width of each curtain is to be six feet – the same size for the eleven curtains.  
Exo 26:9 You are to join five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves. You are to double over the sixth curtain at the front of the tent.  
Exo 26:10 You are to make fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in one set and fifty loops along the edge of the curtain that joins the second set.  
Exo 26:11 You are to make fifty bronze clasps and put the clasps into the loops and join the tent together so that it is a unit.  
Exo 26:12 Now the part that remains of the curtains of the tent – the half curtain that remains will hang over at the back of the tabernacle.  
Exo 26:13 The foot and a half on the one side and the foot and a half on the other side of what remains in the length of the curtains of the tent will hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on one side and the other side, to cover it. 
Exo 26:14  “You are to make a covering for the tent out of ram skins dyed red and over that a covering of fine leather.  
Exo 26:15  “You are to make the frames for the tabernacle out of acacia wood as uprights.  
Exo 26:16 Each frame is to be fifteen feet long, and each frame is to be two feet three inches wide,  
Exo 26:17 with two projections per frame parallel one to another. You are to make all the frames of the tabernacle in this way.  
Exo 26:18 So you are to make the frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side,  
Exo 26:19 and you are to make forty silver bases to go under the twenty frames – two bases under the first frame for its two projections, and likewise two bases under the next frame for its two projections;  
Exo 26:20 and for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, twenty frames,  
Exo 26:21 and their forty silver bases, two bases under the first frame, and two bases under the next frame.  
Exo 26:22 And for the back of the tabernacle on the west you will make six frames.  
Exo 26:23 You are to make two frames for the corners of the tabernacle on the back.  
Exo 26:24 At the two corners they must be doubled at the lower end and finished together at the top in one ring. So it will be for both.  
Exo 26:25 So there are to be eight frames and their silver bases, sixteen bases, two bases under the first frame, and two bases under the next frame.  
Exo 26:26  “You are to make bars of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle,  
Exo 26:27 and five bars for the frames on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames on the back of the tabernacle on the west.  
Exo 26:28 The middle bar in the center of the frames will reach from end to end.  
Exo 26:29 You are to overlay the frames with gold and make their rings of gold to provide places for the bars, and you are to overlay the bars with gold.  
Exo 26:30 You are to set up the tabernacle according to the plan that you were shown on the mountain.  
Exo 26:31  “You are to make a special curtain of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen; it is to be made with cherubim, the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 26:32 You are to hang it with gold hooks on four posts of acacia wood overlaid with gold, set in four silver bases.  
Exo 26:33 You are to hang this curtain under the clasps and bring the ark of the testimony in there behind the curtain. The curtain will make a division for you between the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place.  
Exo 26:34 You are to put the atonement lid on the ark of the testimony in the Most Holy Place. 
Exo 26:35 You are to put the table outside the curtain and the lampstand on the south side of the tabernacle, opposite the table, and you are to place the table on the north side.  
Exo 26:36  “You are to make a hanging for the entrance of the tent of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer.  
Exo 26:37 You are to make for the hanging five posts of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, and their hooks will be gold, and you are to cast five bronze bases for them. 
Exo 27:1  “You are to make the altar of acacia wood, seven feet six inches long, and seven feet six inches wide; the altar is to be square, and its height is to be four feet six inches.  
Exo 27:2 You are to make its four horns on its four corners; its horns will be part of it, and you are to overlay it with bronze.  
Exo 27:3 You are to make its pots for the ashes, its shovels, its tossing bowls, its meat hooks, and its fire pans – you are to make all its utensils of bronze.  
Exo 27:4 You are to make a grating for it, a network of bronze, and you are to make on the network four bronze rings on its four corners.  
Exo 27:5 You are to put it under the ledge of the altar below, so that the network will come halfway up the altar.  
Exo 27:6 You are to make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and you are to overlay them with bronze.  
Exo 27:7 The poles are to be put into the rings so that the poles will be on two sides of the altar when carrying it. 
Exo 27:8 You are to make the altar hollow, out of boards. Just as it was shown you on the mountain, so they must make it. 
Exo 27:9  “You are to make the courtyard of the tabernacle. For the south side there are to be hangings for the courtyard of fine twisted linen, one hundred fifty feet long for one side,  
Exo 27:10 with twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver.  
Exo 27:11 Likewise for its length on the north side, there are to be hangings for one hundred fifty feet, with twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with silver hooks and bands on the posts.  
Exo 27:12 The width of the court on the west side is to be seventy-five feet with hangings, with their ten posts and their ten bases.  
Exo 27:13 The width of the court on the east side, toward the sunrise, is to be seventy-five feet.  
Exo 27:14 The hangings on one side of the gate are to be twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases.  
Exo 27:15 On the second side there are to be hangings twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases.  
Exo 27:16 For the gate of the courtyard there is to be a curtain of thirty feet, of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer, with four posts and their four bases.  
Exo 27:17 All the posts around the courtyard are to have silver bands; their hooks are to be silver, and their bases bronze.  
Exo 27:18 The length of the courtyard is to be one hundred fifty feet and the width seventy-five feet, and the height of the fine twisted linen hangings is to be seven and a half feet, with their bronze bases.  
Exo 27:19 All the utensils of the tabernacle used in all its service, all its tent pegs, and all the tent pegs of the courtyard are to be made of bronze.  
Exo 27:20  “You are to command the Israelites that they bring to you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, so that the lamps will burn regularly.  
Exo 27:21 In the tent of meeting outside the curtain that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons are to arrange it from evening to morning before the Lord. This is to be a lasting ordinance among the Israelites for generations to come. 
Exo 28:1  “And you, bring near to you your brother Aaron and his sons with him from among the Israelites, so that they may minister as my priests – Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons.  
Exo 28:2 You must make holy garments for your brother Aaron, for glory and for beauty.  
Exo 28:3 You are to speak to all who are specially skilled, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, so that they may make Aaron’s garments to set him apart to minister as my priest. 
Exo 28:4 Now these are the garments that they are to make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a fitted tunic, a turban, and a sash. They are to make holy garments for your brother Aaron and for his sons, that they may minister as my priests. 
Exo 28:5 The artisans are to use the gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine linen.  
Exo 28:6  “They are to make the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen, the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 28:7 It is to have two shoulder pieces attached to two of its corners, so it can be joined together. 
Exo 28:8 The artistically woven waistband of the ephod that is on it is to be like it, of one piece with the ephod, of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen.  
Exo 28:9  “You are to take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel,  
Exo 28:10 six of their names on one stone, and the six remaining names on the second stone, according to the order of their birth.  
Exo 28:11 You are to engrave the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel with the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a  seal; you are to have them set in gold filigree settings.  
Exo 28:12 You are to put the two stones on the shoulders of the ephod, stones of memorial for the sons of Israel, and Aaron will bear their names before the Lord on his two shoulders for a memorial.  
Exo 28:13 You are to make filigree settings of gold  
Exo 28:14 and two braided chains of pure gold, like a cord, and attach the chains to the settings.  
Exo 28:15  “You are to make a breastpiece for use in making decisions, the work of an artistic designer; you are to make it in the same fashion as the ephod; you are to make it of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen.  
Exo 28:16 It is to be square when doubled, nine inches long and nine inches wide.  
Exo 28:17 You are to set in it a setting for stones, four rows of stones, a row with a ruby, a topaz, and a beryl – the first row;  
Exo 28:18 and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;  
Exo 28:19 and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;  
Exo 28:20 and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They are to be enclosed in gold in their filigree settings.  
Exo 28:21 The stones are to be for the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to the number of their names. Each name according to the twelve tribes is to be like the engravings of a seal.  
Exo 28:22  “You are to make for the breastpiece braided chains like cords of pure gold,  
Exo 28:23 and you are to make for the breastpiece two gold rings and attach the two rings to the upper two ends of the breastpiece.  
Exo 28:24 You are to attach the two gold chains to the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece;  
Exo 28:25 the other two ends of the two chains you will attach to the two settings and then attach them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it. 
Exo 28:26 You are to make two rings of gold and put them on the other two ends of the breastpiece, on its edge that is on the inner side of the ephod.  
Exo 28:27 You are to make two more gold rings and attach them to the bottom of the two shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the juncture above the waistband of the ephod.  
Exo 28:28 They are to tie the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod by blue cord, so that it may be above the waistband of the ephod, and so that the breastpiece will not be loose from the ephod.  
Exo 28:29 Aaron will bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastpiece of decision over his heart when he goes into the holy place, for a memorial before the Lord continually.  
Exo 28:30  “You are to put the Urim and the Thummim into the breastpiece of decision; and they are to be over Aaron’s heart when he goes in before the Lord. Aaron is to bear the decisions of the Israelites over his heart before the Lord continually.  
Exo 28:31  “You are to make the robe of the ephod completely blue.  
Exo 28:32 There is to be an opening in its top in the center of it, with an edge all around the opening, the work of a weaver, like the opening of a collar, so that it cannot be torn.  
Exo 28:33 You are to make pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet all around its hem and bells of gold between them all around.  
Exo 28:34 The pattern is to be a gold bell and a pomegranate, a gold bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the robe.  
Exo 28:35 The robe is to be on Aaron as he ministers, and his sound will be heard when he enters the Holy Place before the Lord and when he leaves, so that he does not die.  
Exo 28:36  “You are to make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it the way a seal is engraved: “Holiness to the Lord.”  
Exo 28:37 You are to attach to it a blue cord so that it will be on the turban; it is to be on the front of the turban.  
Exo 28:38 It will be on Aaron’s forehead, and Aaron will bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the Israelites are to sanctify by all their holy gifts; it will always be on his forehead, for their acceptance before the Lord. 
Exo 28:39 You are to weave the tunic of fine linen and make the turban of fine linen, and make the sash the work of an embroiderer.  
Exo 28:40  “For Aaron’s sons you are to make tunics, sashes, and headbands for glory and for beauty.  
Exo 28:41  “You are to clothe them – your brother Aaron and his sons with him – and anoint them and ordain them and set them apart as holy, so that they may minister as my priests. 
Exo 28:42 Make for them linen undergarments to cover their naked bodies; they must cover from the waist to the thighs.  
Exo 28:43 These must be on Aaron and his sons when they enter to the tent of meeting, or when they approach the altar to minister in the Holy Place, so that they bear no iniquity and die. It is to be a perpetual ordinance for him and for his descendants after him. 
Exo 29:1  “Now this is what you are to do for them to consecrate them so that they may minister as my priests. Take a young bull and two rams without blemish;  
Exo 29:2 and bread made without yeast, and perforated cakes without yeast mixed with oil, and wafers without yeast spread with oil – you are to make them using fine wheat flour.  
Exo 29:3 You are to put them in one basket and present them in the basket, along with the bull and the two rams.  
Exo 29:4  “You are to present Aaron and his sons at the entrance of the tent of meeting. You are to wash them with water  
Exo 29:5 and take the garments and clothe Aaron with the tunic, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, and the breastpiece; you are to fasten the ephod on him by using the skillfully woven waistband.  
Exo 29:6 You are to put the turban on his head and put the holy diadem on the turban.  
Exo 29:7 You are to take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him. 
Exo 29:8 You are to present his sons and clothe them with tunics  
Exo 29:9 and wrap the sashes around Aaron and his sons and put headbands on them, and so the ministry of priesthood will belong to them by a perpetual ordinance. Thus you are to consecrate Aaron and his sons.  
Exo 29:10  “You are to present the bull at the front of the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons are to put their hands on the head of the bull.  
Exo 29:11 You are to kill the bull before the Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting  
Exo 29:12 and take some of the blood of the bull and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger; all the rest of the blood you are to pour out at the base of the altar.  
Exo 29:13 You are to take all the fat that covers the entrails, and the lobe that is above the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the altar.  
Exo 29:14 But the meat of the bull, its skin, and its dung you are to burn up outside the camp. It is the purification offering. 
Exo 29:15  “You are to take one ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head,  
Exo 29:16 and you are to kill the ram and take its blood and splash it all around on the altar.  
Exo 29:17 Then you are to cut the ram into pieces and wash the entrails and its legs and put them on its pieces and on its head  
Exo 29:18 and burn the whole ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to the Lord, a soothing aroma; it is an offering made by fire to the Lord.  
Exo 29:19  “You are to take the second ram, and Aaron and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head,  
Exo 29:20 and you are to kill the ram and take some of its blood and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron, on the tip of the right ear of his sons, on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot, and then splash the blood all around on the altar.  
Exo 29:21 You are to take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil and sprinkle it on Aaron, on his garments, on his sons, and on his sons’ garments with him, so that he may be holy, he and his garments along with his sons and his sons’ garments.  
Exo 29:22  “You are to take from the ram the fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, the lobe of the liver, the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and the right thigh – for it is the ram for consecration – 
Exo 29:23 and one round flat cake of bread, one perforated cake of oiled bread, and one wafer from the basket of bread made without yeast that is before the Lord. 
Exo 29:24 You are to put all these in Aaron’s hands and in his sons’ hands, and you are to wave them as a wave offering before the Lord. 
Exo 29:25 Then you are to take them from their hands and burn them on the altar for a burnt offering, for a soothing aroma before the Lord. It is an offering made by fire to the Lord. 
Exo 29:26 You are to take the breast of the ram of Aaron’s consecration; you are to wave it as a wave offering before the Lord, and it is to be your share.  
Exo 29:27 You are to sanctify the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the contribution, which were waved and lifted up as a contribution from the ram of consecration, from what belongs to Aaron and to his sons.  
Exo 29:28 It is to belong to Aaron and to his sons from the Israelites, by a perpetual ordinance, for it is a contribution. It is to be a contribution from the Israelites from their peace offerings, their contribution to the Lord. 
Exo 29:29  “The holy garments that belong to Aaron are to belong to his sons after him, so that they may be anointed in them and consecrated in them. 
Exo 29:30 The priest who succeeds him from his sons, when he first comes to the tent of meeting to minister in the Holy Place, is to wear them for seven days.  
Exo 29:31  “You are to take the ram of the consecration and cook its meat in a holy place.  
Exo 29:32 Aaron and his sons are to eat the meat of the ram and the bread that was in the basket at the entrance of the tent of meeting.  
Exo 29:33 They are to eat those things by which atonement was made to consecrate and to set them apart, but no one else may eat them, for they are holy.  
Exo 29:34 If any of the meat from the consecration offerings or any of the bread is left over until morning, then you are to burn up what is left over. It must not be eaten, because it is holy.  
Exo 29:35  “Thus you are to do for Aaron and for his sons, according to all that I have commanded you; you are to consecrate them for seven days.  
Exo 29:36 Every day you are to prepare a bull for a purification offering for atonement. You are to purify the altar by making atonement for it, and you are to anoint it to set it apart as holy. 
Exo 29:37 For seven days you are to make atonement for the altar and set it apart as holy. Then the altar will be most holy. Anything that touches the altar will be holy.  
Exo 29:38  “Now this is what you are to prepare on the altar every day continually: two lambs a year old.  
Exo 29:39 The first lamb you are to prepare in the morning, and the second lamb you are to prepare around sundown.  
Exo 29:40 With the first lamb offer a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin of oil from pressed olives, and a fourth of a hin of wine as a drink offering.  
Exo 29:41 The second lamb you are to offer around sundown; you are to prepare for it the same meal offering as for the morning and the same drink offering, for a soothing aroma, an offering made by fire to the Lord. 
Exo 29:42  “This will be a regular burnt offering throughout your generations at the entrance of the tent of meeting before the Lord, where I will meet with you to speak to you there.  
Exo 29:43 There I will meet with the Israelites, and it will be set apart as holy by my glory.  
Exo 29:44  “So I will set apart as holy the tent of meeting and the altar, and I will set apart as holy Aaron and his sons, that they may minister as priests to me. 
Exo 29:45 I will reside among the Israelites, and I will be their God,  
Exo 29:46 and they will know that I am the Lord their God, who brought them out from the land of Egypt, so that I may reside among them. I am the Lord their God.  
Exo 30:1  “You are to make an altar for burning incense; you are to make it of acacia wood.  
Exo 30:2 Its length is to be a foot and a half and its width a foot and a half; it will be square. Its height is to be three feet, with its horns of one piece with it. 
Exo 30:3 You are to overlay it with pure gold – its top, its four walls, and its horns – and make a surrounding border of gold for it.  
Exo 30:4 You are to make two gold rings for it under its border, on its two flanks; you are to make them on its two sides. The rings will be places for poles to carry it with. 
Exo 30:5 You are to make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.  
Exo 30:6  “You are to put it in front of the curtain that is before the ark of the testimony (before the atonement lid that is over the testimony), where I will meet you. 
Exo 30:7 Aaron is to burn sweet incense on it morning by morning; when he attends to the lamps he is to burn incense.  
Exo 30:8 When Aaron sets up the lamps around sundown he is to burn incense on it; it is to be a regular incense offering before the Lord throughout your generations.  
Exo 30:9 You must not offer strange incense on it, nor burnt offering, nor meal offering, and you must not pour out a drink offering on it. 
Exo 30:10 Aaron is to make atonement on its horns once in the year with some of the blood of the sin offering for atonement; once in the year he is to make atonement on it throughout your generations. It is most holy to the Lord.”  
Exo 30:11  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 30:12 “When you take a census of the Israelites according to their number, then each man is to pay a ransom for his life to the Lord when you number them, so that there will be no plague among them when you number them.  
Exo 30:13 Everyone who crosses over to those who are numbered is to pay this: a half shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary (a shekel weighs twenty gerahs). The half shekel is to be an offering to the Lord. 
Exo 30:14 Everyone who crosses over to those numbered, from twenty years old and up, is to pay an offering to the Lord. 
Exo 30:15 The rich are not to pay more and the poor are not to pay less than the half shekel when giving the offering of the Lord, to make atonement for your lives.  
Exo 30:16 You are to receive the atonement money from the Israelites and give it for the service of the tent of meeting. It will be a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord, to make atonement for your lives.”  
Exo 30:17  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 30:18 “You are also to make a large bronze basin with a bronze stand for washing. You are to put it between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it,  
Exo 30:19 and Aaron and his sons must wash their hands and their feet from it. 
Exo 30:20 When they enter the tent of meeting, they must wash with water so that they do not die. Also, when they approach the altar to minister by burning incense as an offering made by fire to the Lord, 
Exo 30:21 they must wash their hands and their feet so that they do not die. And this will be a perpetual ordinance for them and for their descendants throughout their generations.”  
Exo 30:22  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 30:23 “Take choice spices: twelve and a half pounds of free-flowing myrrh, half that – about six and a quarter pounds – of sweet-smelling cinnamon, six and a quarter pounds of sweet-smelling cane,  
Exo 30:24 and twelve and a half pounds of cassia, all weighed according to the sanctuary shekel, and four quarts of olive oil.  
Exo 30:25 You are to make this into a sacred anointing oil, a perfumed compound, the work of a perfumer. It will be sacred anointing oil.  
Exo 30:26  “With it you are to anoint the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony,  
Exo 30:27 the table and all its utensils, the lampstand and its utensils, the altar of incense,  
Exo 30:28 the altar for the burnt offering and all its utensils, and the laver and its base.  
Exo 30:29 So you are to sanctify them, and they will be most holy; anything that touches them will be holy.  
Exo 30:30  “You are to anoint Aaron and his sons and sanctify them, so that they may minister as my priests. 
Exo 30:31 And you are to tell the Israelites: ‘This is to be my sacred anointing oil throughout your generations.  
Exo 30:32 It must not be applied to people’s bodies, and you must not make any like it with the same recipe. It is holy, and it must be holy to you. 
Exo 30:33 Whoever makes perfume like it and whoever puts any of it on someone not a priest will be cut off from his people.’”  
Exo 30:34 The Lord said to Moses: “Take spices, gum resin, onycha, galbanum, and pure frankincense of equal amounts  
Exo 30:35 and make it into an incense, a perfume, the work of a perfumer. It is to be finely ground, and pure and sacred.  
Exo 30:36 You are to beat some of it very fine and put some of it before the ark of the testimony in the tent of meeting where I will meet with you; it is to be most holy to you. 
Exo 30:37 And the incense that you are to make, you must not make for yourselves using the same recipe; it is to be most holy to you, belonging to the Lord.  
Exo 30:38 Whoever makes anything like it, to use as perfume, will be cut off from his people.”  
Exo 31:1  The Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 31:2 “See, I have chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,  
Exo 31:3 and I have filled him with the Spirit of God in skill, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all kinds of craftsmanship,  
Exo 31:4 to make artistic designs for work with gold, with silver, and with bronze,  
Exo 31:5 and with cutting and setting stone, and with cutting wood, to work in all kinds of craftsmanship.  
Exo 31:6 Moreover, I have also given him Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, and I have given ability to all the specially skilled, that they may make everything I have commanded you: 
Exo 31:7 the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony, the atonement lid that is on it, all the furnishings of the tent,  
Exo 31:8 the table with its utensils, the pure lampstand with all its utensils, the altar of incense,  
Exo 31:9 the altar for the burnt offering with all its utensils, the large basin with its base,  
Exo 31:10 the woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons, to minister as priests, 
Exo 31:11 the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the Holy Place. They will make all these things just as I have commanded you.” 
Exo 31:12  The Lord said to Moses,  
Exo 31:13 “Tell the Israelites, ‘Surely you must keep my Sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you.  
Exo 31:14 So you must keep the Sabbath, for it is holy for you. Everyone who defiles it must surely be put to death; indeed, if anyone does any work on it, then that person will be cut off from among his people.  
Exo 31:15 Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to the Lord; anyone who does work on the Sabbath day must surely be put to death.  
Exo 31:16 The Israelites must keep the Sabbath by observing the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.  
Exo 31:17 It is a sign between me and the Israelites forever; for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.’”  
Exo 31:18 He gave Moses two tablets of testimony when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, tablets of stone written by the finger of God.  
Exo 32:1  When the people saw that Moses delayed in coming down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron and said to him, “Get up, make us gods that will go before us. As for this fellow Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him!” 
Exo 32:2 So Aaron said to them, “Break off the gold earrings that are on the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.”  
Exo 32:3 So all the people broke off the gold earrings that were on their ears and brought them to Aaron.  
Exo 32:4 He accepted the gold from them, fashioned it with an engraving tool, and made a molten calf. Then they said, “These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.”  
Exo 32:5 When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it, and Aaron made a proclamation and said, “Tomorrow will be a feast to the Lord.” 
Exo 32:6 So they got up early on the next day and offered up burnt offerings and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and drink, and they rose up to play.  
Exo 32:7 The Lord spoke to Moses: “Go quickly, descend, because your people, whom you brought up from the land of Egypt, have acted corruptly.  
Exo 32:8 They have quickly turned aside from the way that I commanded them – they have made for themselves a molten calf and have bowed down to it and sacrificed to it and said, ‘These are your gods, O Israel, which brought you up from the land of Egypt.’”  
Exo 32:9 Then the Lord said to Moses: “I have seen this people. Look what a stiff-necked people they are! 
Exo 32:10 So now, leave me alone so that my anger can burn against them and I can destroy them, and I will make from you a great nation.”  
Exo 32:11 But Moses sought the favor of the Lord his God and said, “O Lord, why does your anger burn against your people, whom you have brought out from the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand?  
Exo 32:12 Why should the Egyptians say, ‘For evil he led them out to kill them in the mountains and to destroy them from the face of the earth’? Turn from your burning anger, and relent of this evil against your people.  
Exo 32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel your servants, to whom you swore by yourself and told them, ‘I will multiply your descendants like the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken about I will give to your descendants, and they will inherit it forever.’”  
Exo 32:14 Then the Lord relented over the evil that he had said he would do to his people.  
Exo 32:15 Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hands. The tablets were written on both sides – they were written on the front and on the back. 
Exo 32:16 Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved on the tablets.  
Exo 32:17 When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, “It is the sound of war in the camp!”  
Exo 32:18 Moses said, “It is not the sound of those who shout for victory, nor is it the sound of those who cry because they are overcome, but the sound of singing I hear.”  
Exo 32:19 When he approached the camp and saw the calf and the dancing, Moses became extremely angry. He threw the tablets from his hands and broke them to pieces at the bottom of the mountain.  
Exo 32:20 He took the calf they had made and burned it in the fire, ground it to powder, poured it out on the water, and made the Israelites drink it. 
Exo 32:21 Moses said to Aaron, “What did this people do to you, that you have brought on them so great a sin?”  
Exo 32:22 Aaron said, “Do not let your anger burn hot, my lord; you know these people, that they tend to evil.  
Exo 32:23 They said to me, ‘Make us gods that will go before us, for as for this fellow Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him.’ 
Exo 32:24 So I said to them, ‘Whoever has gold, break it off.’ So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and this calf came out.”  
Exo 32:25 Moses saw that the people were running wild, for Aaron had let them get completely out of control, causing derision from their enemies. 
Exo 32:26 So Moses stood at the entrance of the camp and said, “Whoever is for the Lord, come to me.” All the Levites gathered around him, 
Exo 32:27 and he said to them, “This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said ‘Each man fasten his sword on his side, and go back and forth from entrance to entrance throughout the camp, and each one kill his brother, his friend, and his neighbor.’”  
Exo 32:28 The Levites did what Moses ordered, and that day about three thousand men of the people died.  
Exo 32:29 Moses said, “You have been consecrated today for the Lord, for each of you was against his son or against his brother, so he has given a blessing to you today.”  
Exo 32:30 The next day Moses said to the people, “You have committed a very serious sin, but now I will go up to the Lord – perhaps I can make atonement on behalf of your sin.”  
Exo 32:31 So Moses returned to the Lord and said, “Alas, this people has committed a very serious sin, and they have made for themselves gods of gold.  
Exo 32:32 But now, if you will forgive their sin…, but if not, wipe me out from your book that you have written.”  
Exo 32:33 The Lord said to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against me – that person I will wipe out of my book.  
Exo 32:34 So now go, lead the people to the place I have spoken to you about. See, my angel will go before you. But on the day that I punish, I will indeed punish them for their sin.”  
Exo 32:35 And the Lord sent a plague on the people because they had made the calf – the one Aaron made.  
Exo 33:1 The Lord said to Moses, “Go up from here, you and the people whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land I promised on oath to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will give it to your descendants.’  
Exo 33:2 I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.  
Exo 33:3 Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go up among you, for you are a stiff-necked people, and I might destroy you on the way.”  
Exo 33:4 When the people heard this troubling word they mourned; no one put on his ornaments.  
Exo 33:5 For the Lord had said to Moses, “Tell the Israelites, ‘You are a stiff-necked people. If I went up among you for a moment, I might destroy you. Now take off your ornaments, that I may know what I should do to you.’” 
Exo 33:6 So the Israelites stripped off their ornaments by Mount Horeb.  
Exo 33:7  Moses took the tent and pitched it outside the camp, at a good distance from the camp, and he called it the tent of meeting. Anyone seeking the Lord would go out to the tent of meeting that was outside the camp.  
Exo 33:8 And when Moses went out to the tent, all the people would get up and stand at the entrance to their tents and watch Moses until he entered the tent.  
Exo 33:9 And whenever Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent, and the Lord would speak with Moses.  
Exo 33:10 When all the people would see the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people, each one at the entrance of his own tent, would rise and worship.  
Exo 33:11 The Lord would speak to Moses face to face, the way a person speaks to a friend. Then Moses would return to the camp, but his servant, Joshua son of Nun, a young man, did not leave the tent.  
Exo 33:12 Moses said to the Lord, “See, you have been saying to me, ‘Bring this people up,’ but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. But you said, ‘I know you by name, and also you have found favor in my sight.’  
Exo 33:13 Now if I have found favor in your sight, show me your way, that I may know you, that I may continue to find favor in your sight. And see that this nation is your people.”  
Exo 33:14 And the Lord said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.”  
Exo 33:15 And Moses said to him, “If your presence does not go with us, do not take us up from here.  
Exo 33:16 For how will it be known then that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Is it not by your going with us, so that we will be distinguished, I and your people, from all the people who are on the face of the earth?”  
Exo 33:17 The Lord said to Moses, “I will do this thing also that you have requested, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name.”  
Exo 33:18 And Moses said, “Show me your glory.”  
Exo 33:19 And the Lord said, “I will make all my goodness pass before your face, and I will proclaim the Lord by name before you; I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, I will show mercy to whom I will show mercy.”  
Exo 33:20 But he added, “You cannot see my face, for no one can see me and live.”  
Exo 33:21 The Lord said, “Here is a place by me; you will station yourself on a rock.  
Exo 33:22 When my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft in the rock and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. 
Exo 33:23 Then I will take away my hand, and you will see my back, but my face must not be seen.”  
Exo 34:1  The Lord said to Moses, “Cut out two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you smashed.  
Exo 34:2 Be prepared in the morning, and go up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and station yourself for me there on the top of the mountain.  
Exo 34:3 No one is to come up with you; do not let anyone be seen anywhere on the mountain; not even the flocks or the herds may graze in front of that mountain.”  
Exo 34:4 So Moses cut out two tablets of stone like the first; early in the morning he went up to Mount Sinai, just as the Lord had commanded him, and he took in his hand the two tablets of stone.  
Exo 34:5 The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the Lord by name.  
Exo 34:6 The Lord passed by before him and proclaimed: “The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, and abounding in loyal love and faithfulness,  
Exo 34:7 keeping loyal love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But he by no means leaves the guilty unpunished, responding to the transgression of fathers by dealing with children and children’s children, to the third and fourth generation.”  
Exo 34:8 Moses quickly bowed to the ground and worshiped  
Exo 34:9 and said, “If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, let my Lord go among us, for we are a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance.”  
Exo 34:10 He said, “See, I am going to make a covenant before all your people. I will do wonders such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation. All the people among whom you live will see the work of the Lord, for it is a fearful thing that I am doing with you.  
Exo 34:11  “Obey what I am commanding you this day. I am going to drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.  
Exo 34:12 Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you are going, lest it become a snare among you.  
Exo 34:13 Rather you must destroy their altars, smash their images, and cut down their Asherah poles.  
Exo 34:14 For you must not worship any other god, for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.  
Exo 34:15 Be careful not to make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, for when they prostitute themselves to their gods and sacrifice to their gods, and someone invites you, you will eat from his sacrifice;  
Exo 34:16 and you then take his daughters for your sons, and when his daughters prostitute themselves to their gods, they will make your sons prostitute themselves to their gods as well. 
Exo 34:17 You must not make yourselves molten gods.  
Exo 34:18  “You must keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread. For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, as I commanded you; do this at the appointed time of the month Abib, for in the month Abib you came out of Egypt.  
Exo 34:19  “Every firstborn of the womb belongs to me, even every firstborn of your cattle that is a male, whether ox or sheep.  
Exo 34:20 Now the firstling of a donkey you may redeem with a lamb, but if you do not redeem it, then break its neck. You must redeem all the firstborn of your sons.“No one will appear before me empty-handed.  
Exo 34:21  “On six days you may labor, but on the seventh day you must rest; even at the time of plowing and of harvest you are to rest.  
Exo 34:22  “You must observe the Feast of Weeks – the firstfruits of the harvest of wheat – and the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year.  
Exo 34:23 At three times in the year all your men must appear before the Sovereign Lord, the God of Israel.  
Exo 34:24 For I will drive out the nations before you and enlarge your borders; no one will covet your land when you go up to appear before the Lord your God three times in the year.  
Exo 34:25  “You must not offer the blood of my sacrifice with yeast; the sacrifice from the Feast of Passover must not remain until the following morning.  
Exo 34:26  “The first of the firstfruits of your soil you must bring to the house of the Lord your God.You must not cook a young goat in its mother’s milk.”  
Exo 34:27 The Lord said to Moses, “Write down these words, for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.”  
Exo 34:28 So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread, and he did not drink water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.  
Exo 34:29  Now when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand – when he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. 
Exo 34:30 When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to approach him.  
Exo 34:31 But Moses called to them, so Aaron and all the leaders of the community came back to him, and Moses spoke to them.  
Exo 34:32 After this all the Israelites approached, and he commanded them all that the Lord had spoken to him on Mount Sinai.  
Exo 34:33 When Moses finished speaking with them, he would put a veil on his face.  
Exo 34:34 But when Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would remove the veil until he came out. Then he would come out and tell the Israelites what he had been commanded.  
Exo 34:35 When the Israelites would see the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone, Moses would put the veil on his face again, until he went in to speak with the Lord. 
Exo 35:1 Moses assembled the whole community of the Israelites and said to them, “These are the things that the Lord has commanded you to do.  
Exo 35:2 In six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there must be a holy day for you, a Sabbath of complete rest to the Lord. Anyone who does work on it will be put to death.  
Exo 35:3 You must not kindle a fire in any of your homes on the Sabbath day.”  
Exo 35:4  Moses spoke to the whole community of the Israelites, “This is the word that the Lord has commanded:  
Exo 35:5 ‘Take an offering for the Lord. Let everyone who has a willing heart bring an offering to the Lord: gold, silver, bronze,  
Exo 35:6 blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, fine linen, goat’s hair, 
Exo 35:7 ram skins dyed red, fine leather, acacia wood,  
Exo 35:8 olive oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,  
Exo 35:9 onyx stones, and other gems for mounting on the ephod and the breastpiece.  
Exo 35:10 Every skilled person among you is to come and make all that the Lord has commanded:  
Exo 35:11 the tabernacle with its tent, its covering, its clasps, its frames, its crossbars, its posts, and its bases;  
Exo 35:12 the ark, with its poles, the atonement lid, and the special curtain that conceals it; 
Exo 35:13 the table with its poles and all its vessels, and the Bread of the Presence;  
Exo 35:14 the lampstand for the light and its accessories, its lamps, and oil for the light;  
Exo 35:15 and the altar of incense with its poles, the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense; the hanging for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle;  
Exo 35:16 the altar for the burnt offering with its bronze grating that is on it, its poles, and all its utensils; the large basin and its pedestal;  
Exo 35:17 the hangings of the courtyard, its posts and its bases, and the curtain for the gateway to the courtyard;  
Exo 35:18 tent pegs for the tabernacle and tent pegs for the courtyard and their ropes;  
Exo 35:19 the woven garments for serving in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons to minister as priests.” 
Exo 35:20 So the whole community of the Israelites went out from the presence of Moses.  
Exo 35:21 Everyone whose heart stirred him to action and everyone whose spirit was willing came and brought the offering for the Lord for the work of the tent of meeting, for all its service, and for the holy garments.  
Exo 35:22 They came, men and women alike, all who had willing hearts. They brought brooches, earrings, rings and ornaments, all kinds of gold jewelry, and everyone came who waved a wave offering of gold to the Lord. 
Exo 35:23 Everyone who had blue, purple, or scarlet yarn, fine linen, goats’ hair, ram skins dyed red, or fine leather brought them. 
Exo 35:24 Everyone making an offering of silver or bronze brought it as an offering to the Lord, and everyone who had acacia wood for any work of the service brought it. 
Exo 35:25 Every woman who was skilled spun with her hands and brought what she had spun, blue, purple, or scarlet yarn, or fine linen,  
Exo 35:26 and all the women whose heart stirred them to action and who were skilled spun goats’ hair. 
Exo 35:27 The leaders brought onyx stones and other gems to be mounted for the ephod and the breastpiece,  
Exo 35:28 and spices and olive oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.  
Exo 35:29 The Israelites brought a freewill offering to the Lord, every man and woman whose heart was willing to bring materials for all the work that the Lord through Moses had commanded them to do.  
Exo 35:30 Moses said to the Israelites, “See, the Lord has chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.  
Exo 35:31 He has filled him with the Spirit of God – with skill, with understanding, with knowledge, and in all kinds of work,  
Exo 35:32 to design artistic designs, to work in gold, in silver, and in bronze,  
Exo 35:33 and in cutting stones for their setting, and in cutting wood, to do work in every artistic craft.  
Exo 35:34 And he has put it in his heart to teach, he and Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.  
Exo 35:35 He has filled them with skill to do all kinds of work as craftsmen, as designers, as embroiderers in blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and in fine linen, and as weavers. They are craftsmen in all the work and artistic designers.  
Exo 36:1 So Bezalel and Oholiab and every skilled person in whom the Lord has put skill and ability to know how to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary are to do the work according to all that the Lord has commanded.”  
Exo 36:2 Moses summoned Bezalel and Oholiab and every skilled person in whom the Lord had put skill – everyone whose heart stirred him to volunteer to do the work,  
Exo 36:3 and they received from Moses all the offerings the Israelites had brought to do the work for the service of the sanctuary, and they still continued to bring him a freewill offering each morning.  
Exo 36:4 So all the skilled people who were doing all the work on the sanctuary came from the work they were doing  
Exo 36:5 and told Moses, “The people are bringing much more than is needed for the completion of the work which the Lord commanded us to do!”  
Exo 36:6 Moses instructed them to take his message throughout the camp, saying, “Let no man or woman do any more work for the offering for the sanctuary.” So the people were restrained from bringing any more.  
Exo 36:7 Now the materials were more than enough for them to do all the work.  
Exo 36:8 All the skilled among those who were doing the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet; they were made with cherubim that were the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 36:9 The length of one curtain was forty-two feet, and the width of one curtain was six feet – the same size for each of the curtains.  
Exo 36:10 He joined five of the curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he joined to one another.  
Exo 36:11 He made loops of blue material along the edge of the end curtain in the first set; he did the same along the edge of the end curtain in the second set.  
Exo 36:12 He made fifty loops on the first curtain, and he made fifty loops on the end curtain that was in the second set, with the loops opposite one another.  
Exo 36:13 He made fifty gold clasps and joined the curtains together to one another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle was a unit.  
Exo 36:14 He made curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains.  
Exo 36:15 The length of one curtain was forty-five feet, and the width of one curtain was six feet – one size for all eleven curtains.  
Exo 36:16 He joined five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves.  
Exo 36:17 He made fifty loops along the edge of the end curtain in the first set and fifty loops along the edge of the curtain that joined the second set.  
Exo 36:18 He made fifty bronze clasps to join the tent together so that it might be a unit.  
Exo 36:19 He made a covering for the tent out of ram skins dyed red and over that a covering of fine leather.  
Exo 36:20 He made the frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood as uprights.  
Exo 36:21 The length of each frame was fifteen feet, the width of each frame was two and a quarter feet,  
Exo 36:22 with two projections per frame parallel one to another. He made all the frames of the tabernacle in this way.  
Exo 36:23 So he made frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side.  
Exo 36:24 He made forty silver bases under the twenty frames – two bases under the first frame for its two projections, and likewise two bases under the next frame for its two projections,  
Exo 36:25 and for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, he made twenty frames  
Exo 36:26 and their forty silver bases, two bases under the first frame and two bases under the next frame.  
Exo 36:27 And for the back of the tabernacle on the west he made six frames.  
Exo 36:28 He made two frames for the corners of the tabernacle on the back.  
Exo 36:29 At the two corners they were doubled at the lower end and finished together at the top in one ring. So he did for both.  
Exo 36:30 So there were eight frames and their silver bases, sixteen bases, two bases under each frame.  
Exo 36:31 He made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle  
Exo 36:32 and five bars for the frames on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tabernacle for the back side on the west.  
Exo 36:33 He made the middle bar to reach from end to end in the center of the frames.  
Exo 36:34 He overlaid the frames with gold and made their rings of gold to provide places for the bars, and he overlaid the bars with gold.  
Exo 36:35 He made the special curtain of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 36:36 He made for it four posts of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, with gold hooks, and he cast for them four silver bases.  
Exo 36:37 He made a hanging for the entrance of the tent of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer,  
Exo 36:38 and its five posts and their hooks. He overlaid their tops and their bands with gold, but their five bases were bronze.  
Exo 37:1 Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood; its length was three feet nine inches, its width two feet three inches, and its height two feet three inches.  
Exo 37:2 He overlaid it with pure gold, inside and out, and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.  
Exo 37:3 He cast four gold rings for it that he put on its four feet, with two rings on one side and two rings on the other side.  
Exo 37:4 He made poles of acacia wood, overlaid them with gold,  
Exo 37:5 and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark in order to carry the ark.  
Exo 37:6 He made an atonement lid of pure gold; its length was three feet nine inches, and its width was two feet three inches.  
Exo 37:7 He made two cherubim of gold; he made them of hammered metal on the two ends of the atonement lid,  
Exo 37:8 one cherub on one end and one cherub on the other end. He made the cherubim from the atonement lid on its two ends.  
Exo 37:9 The cherubim were spreading their wings upward, overshadowing the atonement lid with their wings. The cherubim faced each other, looking toward the atonement lid.  
Exo 37:10 He made the table of acacia wood; its length was three feet, its width one foot six inches, and its height two feet three inches.  
Exo 37:11 He overlaid it with pure gold, and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.  
Exo 37:12 He made a surrounding frame for it about three inches wide, and he made a surrounding border of gold for its frame.  
Exo 37:13 He cast four gold rings for it and attached the rings at the four corners where its four legs were. 
Exo 37:14 The rings were close to the frame to provide places for the poles to carry the table.  
Exo 37:15 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table.  
Exo 37:16 He made the vessels which were on the table out of pure gold, its plates, its ladles, its pitchers, and its bowls, to be used in pouring out offerings. 
Exo 37:17 He made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered metal; its base and its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms were from the same piece.  
Exo 37:18 Six branches were extending from its sides, three branches of the lampstand from one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand from the other side of it. 
Exo 37:19 Three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms were on the first branch, and three cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms were on the next branch, and the same for the six branches that were extending from the lampstand.  
Exo 37:20 On the lampstand there were four cups shaped like almond flowers with buds and blossoms,  
Exo 37:21 with a bud under the first two branches from it, and a bud under the next two branches from it, and a bud under the third two branches from it; according to the six branches that extended from it. 
Exo 37:22 Their buds and their branches were of one piece; all of it was one hammered piece of pure gold.  
Exo 37:23 He made its seven lamps, its trimmers, and its trays of pure gold.  
Exo 37:24 He made the lampstand and all its accessories with seventy-five pounds of pure gold.  
Exo 37:25 He made the incense altar of acacia wood. Its length was a foot and a half and its width a foot and a half – a square – and its height was three feet. Its horns were of one piece with it. 
Exo 37:26 He overlaid it with pure gold – its top, its four walls, and its horns – and he made a surrounding border of gold for it.  
Exo 37:27 He also made two gold rings for it under its border, on its two sides, on opposite sides, as places for poles to carry it with. 
Exo 37:28 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.  
Exo 37:29 He made the sacred anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense, the work of a perfumer.  
Exo 38:1 He made the altar for the burnt offering of acacia wood seven feet six inches long and seven feet six inches wide – it was square – and its height was four feet six inches.  
Exo 38:2 He made its horns on its four corners; its horns were part of it, and he overlaid it with bronze.  
Exo 38:3 He made all the utensils of the altar – the pots, the shovels, the tossing bowls, the meat hooks, and the fire pans – he made all its utensils of bronze.  
Exo 38:4 He made a grating for the altar, a network of bronze under its ledge, halfway up from the bottom.  
Exo 38:5 He cast four rings for the four corners of the bronze grating, to provide places for the poles.  
Exo 38:6 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.  
Exo 38:7 He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, with which to carry it. He made the altar hollow, out of boards.  
Exo 38:8 He made the large basin of bronze and its pedestal of bronze from the mirrors of the women who served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.  
Exo 38:9 He made the courtyard. For the south side the hangings of the courtyard were of fine twisted linen, one hundred fifty feet long, 
Exo 38:10 with their twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver.  
Exo 38:11 For the north side the hangings were one hundred fifty feet, with their twenty posts and their twenty bronze bases, with the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver.  
Exo 38:12 For the west side there were hangings seventy-five feet long, with their ten posts and their ten bases, with the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver.  
Exo 38:13 For the east side, toward the sunrise, it was seventy-five feet wide, 
Exo 38:14 with hangings on one side of the gate that were twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases,  
Exo 38:15 and for the second side of the gate of the courtyard, just like the other, the hangings were twenty-two and a half feet long, with their three posts and their three bases.  
Exo 38:16 All the hangings around the courtyard were of fine twisted linen.  
Exo 38:17 The bases for the posts were bronze. The hooks of the posts and their bands were silver, their tops were overlaid with silver, and all the posts of the courtyard had silver bands.  
Exo 38:18 The curtain for the gate of the courtyard was of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer. It was thirty feet long, and like the hangings in the courtyard, it was seven and a half feet high,  
Exo 38:19 with four posts and their four bronze bases. Their hooks and their bands were silver, and their tops were overlaid with silver.  
Exo 38:20 All the tent pegs of the tabernacle and of the courtyard all around were bronze.  
Exo 38:21 This is the inventory of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, which was counted by the order of Moses, being the work of the Levites under the direction of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.  
Exo 38:22 Now Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made everything that the Lord had commanded Moses;  
Exo 38:23 and with him was Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an artisan, a designer, and an embroiderer in blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine linen.  
Exo 38:24 All the gold that was used for the work, in all the work of the sanctuary (namely, the gold of the wave offering) was twenty-nine talents and 730 shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel.  
Exo 38:25 The silver of those who were numbered of the community was one hundred talents and 1,775 shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel,  
Exo 38:26 one beka per person, that is, a half shekel, according to the sanctuary shekel, for everyone who crossed over to those numbered, from twenty years old or older, 603,550 in all. 
Exo 38:27 The one hundred talents of silver were used for casting the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the special curtain – one hundred bases for one hundred talents, one talent per base.  
Exo 38:28 From the remaining 1,775 shekels he made hooks for the posts, overlaid their tops, and made bands for them. 
Exo 38:29 The bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents and 2,400 shekels.  
Exo 38:30 With it he made the bases for the door of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar, the bronze grating for it, and all the utensils of the altar,  
Exo 38:31 the bases for the courtyard all around, the bases for the gate of the courtyard, all the tent pegs of the tabernacle, and all the tent pegs of the courtyard all around.  
Exo 39:1 From the blue, purple, and scarlet yarn they made woven garments for serving in the sanctuary; they made holy garments that were for Aaron, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:2 He made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twisted linen.  
Exo 39:3 They hammered the gold into thin sheets and cut it into narrow strips to weave them into the blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and into the fine linen, the work of an artistic designer.  
Exo 39:4 They made shoulder pieces for it, attached to two of its corners, so it could be joined together. 
Exo 39:5 The artistically woven waistband of the ephod that was on it was like it, of one piece with it, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and fine twisted linen, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:6 They set the onyx stones in gold filigree settings, engraved as with the engravings of a seal with the names of the sons of Israel.  
Exo 39:7 He put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as stones of memorial for the Israelites, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:8 He made the breastpiece, the work of an artistic designer, in the same fashion as the ephod, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet, and fine twisted linen.  
Exo 39:9 It was square – they made the breastpiece doubled, nine inches long and nine inches wide when doubled.  
Exo 39:10 They set on it four rows of stones: a row with a ruby, a topaz, and a beryl – the first row;  
Exo 39:11 and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;  
Exo 39:12 and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;  
Exo 39:13 and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in gold filigree settings.  
Exo 39:14 The stones were for the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, corresponding to the number of their names. Each name corresponding to one of the twelve tribes was like the engravings of a seal.  
Exo 39:15 They made for the breastpiece braided chains like cords of pure gold,  
Exo 39:16 and they made two gold filigree settings and two gold rings, and they attached the two rings to the upper two ends of the breastpiece.  
Exo 39:17 They attached the two gold chains to the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece;  
Exo 39:18 the other two ends of the two chains they attached to the two settings, and they attached them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it. 
Exo 39:19 They made two rings of gold and put them on the other two ends of the breastpiece on its edge, which is on the inner side of the ephod.  
Exo 39:20 They made two more gold rings and attached them to the bottom of the two shoulder pieces on the front of the ephod, close to the juncture above the waistband of the ephod.  
Exo 39:21 They tied the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod by blue cord, so that it was above the waistband of the ephod, so that the breastpiece would not be loose from the ephod, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:22 He made the robe of the ephod completely blue, the work of a weaver.  
Exo 39:23 There was an opening in the center of the robe, like the opening of a collar, with an edge all around the opening so that it could not be torn.  
Exo 39:24 They made pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn and twisted linen around the hem of the robe.  
Exo 39:25 They made bells of pure gold and attached the bells between the pomegranates around the hem of the robe between the pomegranates.  
Exo 39:26 There was a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the robe, to be used in ministering, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:27 They made tunics of fine linen – the work of a weaver, for Aaron and for his sons – 
Exo 39:28 and the turban of fine linen, the headbands of fine linen, and the undergarments of fine twisted linen.  
Exo 39:29 The sash was of fine twisted linen and blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, the work of an embroiderer, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:30 They made a plate, the holy diadem, of pure gold and wrote on it an inscription, as on the engravings of a seal, “Holiness to the Lord.” 
Exo 39:31 They attached to it a blue cord, to attach it to the turban above, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:32  So all the work of the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was completed, and the Israelites did according to all that the Lord had commanded Moses – they did it exactly so. 
Exo 39:33 They brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its furnishings, clasps, frames, bars, posts, and bases;  
Exo 39:34 and the coverings of ram skins dyed red, the covering of fine leather, and the protecting curtain;  
Exo 39:35 the ark of the testimony and its poles, and the atonement lid;  
Exo 39:36 the table, all its utensils, and the Bread of the Presence;  
Exo 39:37 the pure lampstand, its lamps, with the lamps set in order, and all its accessories, and oil for the light;  
Exo 39:38 and the gold altar, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense; and the curtain for the entrance to the tent;  
Exo 39:39 the bronze altar and its bronze grating, its poles, and all its utensils; the large basin with its pedestal;  
Exo 39:40 the hangings of the courtyard, its posts and its bases, and the curtain for the gateway of the courtyard, its ropes and its tent pegs, and all the furnishings for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting;  
Exo 39:41 the woven garments for serving in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments for his sons to minister as priests. 
Exo 39:42 The Israelites did all the work according to all that the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 39:43 Moses inspected all the work – and they had done it just as the Lord had commanded – they had done it exactly – and Moses blessed them. 
Exo 40:1  Then the Lord spoke to Moses:  
Exo 40:2 “On the first day of the first month you are to set up the tabernacle, the tent of meeting.  
Exo 40:3 You are to place the ark of the testimony in it and shield the ark with the special curtain.  
Exo 40:4 You are to bring in the table and set out the things that belong on it; then you are to bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps.  
Exo 40:5 You are to put the gold altar for incense in front of the ark of the testimony and put the curtain at the entrance to the tabernacle.  
Exo 40:6 You are to put the altar for the burnt offering in front of the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting.  
Exo 40:7 You are to put the large basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. 
Exo 40:8 You are to set up the courtyard around it and put the curtain at the gate of the courtyard.  
Exo 40:9 And take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and sanctify it and all its furnishings, and it will be holy.  
Exo 40:10 Then you are to anoint the altar for the burnt offering with all its utensils; you are to sanctify the altar, and it will be the most holy altar.  
Exo 40:11 You must also anoint the large basin and its pedestal, and you are to sanctify it. 
Exo 40:12  “You are to bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and wash them with water.  
Exo 40:13 Then you are to clothe Aaron with the holy garments and anoint him and sanctify him so that he may minister as my priest. 
Exo 40:14 You are to bring his sons and clothe them with tunics  
Exo 40:15 and anoint them just as you anointed their father, so that they may minister as my priests; their anointing will make them a priesthood that will continue throughout their generations.”  
Exo 40:16 This is what Moses did, according to all the Lord had commanded him – so he did.  
Exo 40:17 So the tabernacle was set up on the first day of the first month, in the second year.  
Exo 40:18 When Moses set up the tabernacle and put its bases in place, he set up its frames, attached its bars, and set up its posts.  
Exo 40:19 Then he spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent over it, as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:20 He took the testimony and put it in the ark, attached the poles to the ark, and then put the atonement lid on the ark.  
Exo 40:21 And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, hung the protecting curtain, and shielded the ark of the testimony from view, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:22 And he put the table in the tent of meeting, on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the curtain.  
Exo 40:23 And he set the bread in order on it before the Lord, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:24 And he put the lampstand in the tent of meeting opposite the table, on the south side of the tabernacle.  
Exo 40:25 Then he set up the lamps before the Lord, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:26 And he put the gold altar in the tent of meeting in front of the curtain,  
Exo 40:27 and he burned fragrant incense on it, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:28 Then he put the curtain at the entrance to the tabernacle.  
Exo 40:29 He also put the altar for the burnt offering by the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, and offered on it the burnt offering and the meal offering, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:30 Then he put the large basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing.  
Exo 40:31 Moses and Aaron and his sons would wash their hands and their feet from it. 
Exo 40:32 Whenever they entered the tent of meeting, and whenever they approached the altar, they would wash, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.  
Exo 40:33 And he set up the courtyard around the tabernacle and the altar, and put the curtain at the gate of the courtyard. So Moses finished the work.  
Exo 40:34 Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle.  
Exo 40:35 Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud settled on it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle.  
Exo 40:36 But when the cloud was lifted up from the tabernacle, the Israelites would set out on all their journeys;  
Exo 40:37 but if the cloud was not lifted up, then they would not journey further until the day it was lifted up.  
Exo 40:38 For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, but fire would be on it at night, in plain view of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.  
