Nah 1:1 This is an oracle  about Nineveh;the book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite:  
Nah 1:2 The Lord is a zealous and avenging God;the Lord is avenging and very angry. The Lord takes vengeance against his foes;he sustains his rage against his enemies.  
Nah 1:3 The Lord is slow to anger but great in power; the Lord will certainly not allow the wicked to go unpunished.He marches out in the whirlwind and the raging storm; dark storm clouds billow like dust under his feet.  
Nah 1:4 He shouts a battle cry against the sea and makes it dry up; he makes all the rivers run dry.Bashan and Carmel wither; the blossom of Lebanon withers.  
Nah 1:5 The mountains tremble before him, the hills convulse; the earth is laid waste before him,the world and all its inhabitants are laid waste. 
Nah 1:6 No one can withstand his indignation! No one can resist his fierce anger! His wrath is poured out like volcanic fire,boulders are broken up as he approaches.  
Nah 1:7 The Lord is good – indeed, he is a fortress in time of distress, and he protects those who seek refuge in him. 
Nah 1:8 But with an overwhelming flood he will make a complete end of Nineveh; he will drive his enemies into darkness.  
Nah 1:9 Whatever you plot against the Lord, he will completely destroy! Distress will not arise a second time.  
Nah 1:10 Surely they will be totally consumed like entangled thorn bushes, like the drink of drunkards, like very dry stubble.  
Nah 1:11 From you, O Nineveh, one has marched forth who plots evil against the Lord,a wicked military strategist. 
Nah 1:12 This is what the Lord says: “Even though they are powerful – and what is more, even though their army is numerous – nevertheless, they will be destroyed and trickle away! Although I afflicted you,I will afflict you no more.  
Nah 1:13 And now, I will break Assyria’s yoke bar from your neck; I will tear apart the shackles that are on you.” 
Nah 1:14 The Lord has issued a decree against you: “Your dynasty will come to an end. I will destroy the idols and images in the temples of your gods.I will desecrate your grave – because you are accursed!”  
Nah 1:15  (2:1) Look! A herald is running on the mountains!A messenger is proclaiming deliverance: “Celebrate your sacred festivals, O Judah!Fulfill your sacred vows to praise God! For never again will the wicked Assyrians invade you,they have been completely destroyed.”  
Nah 2:1  (2:2) “An enemy who will scatter  you, Nineveh,  has advanced  against you!” “Guard the rampart! Watch the road!Prepare yourselves for battle! Muster your mighty strength!”  
Nah 2:2 For the Lord is about to restore the majesty of Jacob,as well as the majesty of Israel,though their enemies have plundered them and have destroyed their fields.  
Nah 2:3 The shields of his warriors are dyed red; the mighty soldiers are dressed in scarlet garments. The chariots  are in flashing metal fittings  on the day of battle; the soldiers brandish their spears.  
Nah 2:4 The chariots race madly through the streets,they rush back and forth in the broad plazas;they look like lightning bolts, they dash here and there like flashes of lightning.  
Nah 2:5 The commander orders his officers;they stumble as they advance; they rush to the city wall and they set up the covered siege tower.  
Nah 2:6 The sluice gates are opened;the royal palace is deluged and dissolves.  
Nah 2:7 Nineveh is taken into exile and is led away; her slave girls moan like doves while they beat their breasts.  
Nah 2:8 Nineveh was  like a pool of water throughout her days, but now her people are running away; she cries out: “Stop! Stop!” – but no one turns back. 
Nah 2:9 Her conquerors cry out: “Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold!”There is no end to the treasure;riches of every kind of precious thing.  
Nah 2:10 Destruction,  devastation, and desolation! Hearts faint; knees tremble;every stomach churns, all their faces have turned pale!  
Nah 2:11 Where now is the den of the lions, and the feeding place of the young lions,where the lion, lioness, and lion cub once prowled and no one disturbed them? 
Nah 2:12 The lion tore apart as much prey as his cubs neededand strangled prey for his lionesses;he filled his lairs with preyand his dens with torn flesh. 
Nah 2:13  “I am against you!” declares the Lord of Heaven’s Armies: “I will burn your chariots with fire; the sword will devour your young lions; you will no longer prey upon the land; the voices of your messengers will no longer be heard.”  
Nah 3:1 Woe to the city guilty of bloodshed! She is full of lies; she is filled with plunder; she has hoarded her spoil! 
Nah 3:2 The chariot drivers will crack their whips; the chariot wheels will shake the ground; the chariot horses will gallop; the war chariots will bolt forward! 
Nah 3:3 The charioteers will charge ahead; their swords will flash and their spears will glimmer! There will be many people slain; there will be piles of the dead,and countless casualties – so many that people will stumble over the corpses.  
Nah 3:4  “Because you have acted like a wanton prostitute – a seductive mistress who practices sorcery, who enslaves nations by her harlotry, and entices peoples by her sorcery – 
Nah 3:5 I am against you,” declares the Lord of Heaven’s Armies. “I will strip off your clothes! I will show your nakedness to the nationsand your shame to the kingdoms;  
Nah 3:6 I will pelt you with filth; I will treat you with contempt;I will make you a public spectacle.  
Nah 3:7 Everyone who sees you will turn away from you in disgust;they will say, ‘Nineveh has been devastated!Who will lament for her?’There will be no one to comfort you!” 
Nah 3:8 You are no more secure than Thebes – she was located on the banks of the Nile;the waters surrounded her,her rampart was the sea,the water was her wall.  
Nah 3:9 Cush and Egypt had limitless strength; Put and the Libyans were among her allies.  
Nah 3:10 Yet she went into captivity as an exile; even her infants were smashed to pieces at the head of every street.They cast lots for her nobility; all her dignitaries were bound with chains.  
Nah 3:11 You too will act like drunkards; you will go into hiding; you too will seek refuge from the enemy.  
Nah 3:12 All your fortifications will be like fig trees with first-ripe fruit: If they are shaken, their figs will fall into the mouth of the eater!  
Nah 3:13 Your warriors will be like women in your midst;the gates of your land will be wide open to your enemies;fire will consume the bars of your gates.  
Nah 3:14 Draw yourselves water for a siege! Strengthen your fortifications!Trample the mud and tread the clay!Make mud bricks to strengthen your walls! 
Nah 3:15 There the fire will consume you;the sword will cut you down;it will devour you like the young locust would.Multiply yourself like the young locust;multiply yourself like the flying locust!  
Nah 3:16 Increase your merchants more than the stars of heaven!They are like the young locust which sheds its skin and flies away. 
Nah 3:17 Your courtiers are like locusts,your officials are like a swarm of locusts!They encamp in the walls on a cold day,yet when the sun rises, they fly away; and no one knows where they are.  
Nah 3:18 Your shepherds are sleeping, O king of Assyria!Your officers are slumbering! Your people are scattered like sheep on the mountainsand there is no one to regather them! 
Nah 3:19 Your destruction is like an incurable wound; your demise is like a fatal injury! All who hear what has happened to you will clap their hands for joy, for no one ever escaped your endless cruelty!  
