Psa 1:1 How blessed is the one who does not follow the advice of the wicked, or stand in the pathway with sinners,or sit in the assembly of scoffers!  
Psa 1:2 Instead he finds pleasure in obeying the Lord’s commands; he meditates on his commands day and night.  
Psa 1:3 He is like a tree planted by flowing streams; it yields its fruit at the proper time, and its leaves never fall off. He succeeds in everything he attempts. 
Psa 1:4 Not so with the wicked!Instead they are like wind-driven chaff.  
Psa 1:5 For this reason the wicked cannot withstand judgment, nor can sinners join the assembly of the godly.  
Psa 1:6 Certainly the Lord guards the way of the godly, but the way of the wicked ends in destruction.  
Psa 2:1 Why do the nations rebel? Why are the countries devising plots that will fail?  
Psa 2:2 The kings of the earth form a united front; the rulers collaborate against the Lord and his anointed king.  
Psa 2:3 They say, “Let’s tear off the shackles they’ve put on us! Let’s free ourselves from their ropes!”  
Psa 2:4 The one enthroned in heaven laughs in disgust; the Lord taunts them. 
Psa 2:5 Then he angrily speaks to themand terrifies them in his rage, saying, 
Psa 2:6  “I myself have installed my kingon Zion, my holy hill.”  
Psa 2:7 The king says, “I will announce the Lord’s decree. He said to me: ‘You are my son! This very day I have become your father!  
Psa 2:8 Ask me,and I will give you the nations as your inheritance, the ends of the earth as your personal property.  
Psa 2:9 You will break them with an iron scepter; you will smash them like a potter’s jar!’”  
Psa 2:10 So now, you kings, do what is wise; you rulers of the earth, submit to correction!  
Psa 2:11 Serve the Lord in fear!Repent in terror!  
Psa 2:12 Give sincere homage! Otherwise he will be angry, and you will die because of your behavior, when his anger quickly ignites. How blessed are all who take shelter in him! 
Psa 3:1 A psalm of David, written when he fled from his son Absalom.  Lord, how numerous are my enemies!Many attack me. 
Psa 3:2 Many say about me,“God will not deliver him.” (Selah) 
Psa 3:3 But you, Lord, are a shield that protects me; you are my glory and the one who restores me.  
Psa 3:4 To the Lord I cried out, and he answered me from his holy hill. (Selah) 
Psa 3:5 I rested and slept;I awoke, for the Lord protects me. 
Psa 3:6 I am not afraid of the multitude of people who attack me from all directions. 
Psa 3:7 Rise up, Lord!Deliver me, my God!Yes, you will strike all my enemies on the jaw;you will break the teeth of the wicked.  
Psa 3:8 The Lord delivers; you show favor to your people. (Selah) 
Psa 4:1 For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a psalm of David. When I call out, answer me,O God who vindicates me! Though I am hemmed in, you will lead me into a wide, open place. Have mercy on me and respond to my prayer!  
Psa 4:2 You men, how long will you try to turn my honor into shame? How long will you love what is worthless and search for what is deceptive? (Selah) 
Psa 4:3 Realize that the Lord shows the godly special favor; the Lord responds when I cry out to him.  
Psa 4:4 Tremble with fear and do not sin! Meditate as you lie in bed, and repent of your ways! (Selah) 
Psa 4:5 Offer the prescribed sacrifices and trust in the Lord!  
Psa 4:6 Many say, “Who can show us anything good?”Smile upon us, Lord!  
Psa 4:7 You make me happier than those who have abundant grain and wine.  
Psa 4:8 I will lie down and sleep peacefully, for you, Lord, make me safe and secure.  
Psa 5:1 For the music director, to be accompanied by wind instruments; a psalm of David. Listen to what I say, Lord!Carefully consider my complaint!  
Psa 5:2 Pay attention to my cry for help,my king and my God,for I am praying to you! 
Psa 5:3  Lord, in the morning you will hear me; in the morning I will present my case to you and then wait expectantly for an answer. 
Psa 5:4 Certainly you are not a God who approves of evil; evil people cannot dwell with you.  
Psa 5:5 Arrogant people cannot stand in your presence; you hate all who behave wickedly.  
Psa 5:6 You destroy liars; the Lord despises violent and deceitful people.  
Psa 5:7 But as for me, because of your great faithfulness I will enter your house; I will bow down toward your holy temple as I worship you.  
Psa 5:8  Lord, lead me in your righteousness because of those who wait to ambush me, remove the obstacles in the way in which you are guiding me! 
Psa 5:9 For they do not speak the truth; their stomachs are like the place of destruction, their throats like an open grave, their tongues like a steep slope leading into it. 
Psa 5:10 Condemn them, O God!May their own schemes be their downfall! Drive them away because of their many acts of insurrection, for they have rebelled against you. 
Psa 5:11 But may all who take shelter in you be happy! May they continually shout for joy! Shelter them so that those who are loyal to you may rejoice!  
Psa 5:12 Certainly you reward the godly, Lord.Like a shield you protect them in your good favor.  
Psa 6:1 For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments, according to the sheminith style; a psalm of David. Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger!Do not discipline me in your raging fury! 
Psa 6:2 Have mercy on me, Lord, for I am frail!Heal me, Lord, for my bones are shaking!  
Psa 6:3 I am absolutely terrified, and you, Lord – how long will this continue? 
Psa 6:4 Relent,  Lord, rescue me! Deliver me because of your faithfulness!  
Psa 6:5 For no one remembers you in the realm of death, In Sheol who gives you thanks?  
Psa 6:6 I am exhausted as I groan;all night long I drench my bed in tears; my tears saturate the cushion beneath me. 
Psa 6:7 My eyes grow dim from suffering;they grow weak because of all my enemies.  
Psa 6:8 Turn back from me, all you who behave wickedly, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping!  
Psa 6:9 The Lord has heard my appeal for mercy;the Lord has accepted my prayer.  
Psa 6:10 They will be humiliated and absolutely terrified! All my enemies will turn back and be suddenly humiliated!  
Psa 7:1 A musical composition by David, which he sang to the Lord concerning a Benjaminite named Cush.  O Lord my God, in you I have taken shelter. Deliver me from all who chase me! Rescue me! 
Psa 7:2 Otherwise they will rip me to shreds like a lion;they will tear me to bits and no one will be able to rescue me.  
Psa 7:3 O Lord my God, if I have done what they say, or am guilty of unjust actions, 
Psa 7:4 or have wronged my ally, or helped his lawless enemy,  
Psa 7:5 may an enemy relentlessly chase me and catch me; may he trample me to death and leave me lying dishonored in the dust. (Selah) 
Psa 7:6 Stand up angrily, Lord!Rise up with raging fury against my enemies! Wake up for my sake and execute the judgment you have decreed for them! 
Psa 7:7 The countries are assembled all around you; take once more your rightful place over them!  
Psa 7:8 The Lord judges the nations. Vindicate me, Lord, because I am innocent, because I am blameless, O Exalted One! 
Psa 7:9 May the evil deeds of the wicked come to an end! But make the innocent secure, O righteous God,you who examine inner thoughts and motives!  
Psa 7:10 The Exalted God is my shield, the one who delivers the morally upright.  
Psa 7:11 God is a just judge;he is angry throughout the day.  
Psa 7:12 If a person does not repent, God will wield his sword. He has prepared to shoot his bow.  
Psa 7:13 He has prepared deadly weapons to use against him; he gets ready to shoot flaming arrows.  
Psa 7:14 See the one who is pregnant with wickedness,who conceives destructive plans,and gives birth to harmful lies – 
Psa 7:15 he digs a pit and then falls into the hole he has made.  
Psa 7:16 He becomes the victim of his own destructive plans and the violence he intended for others falls on his own head.  
Psa 7:17 I will thank the Lord for his justice;I will sing praises to the Lord Most High!  
Psa 8:1 For the music director, according to the gittith style; a psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how magnificent is your reputation throughout the earth!You reveal your majesty in the heavens above!  
Psa 8:2 From the mouths of children and nursing babiesyou have ordained praise on account of your adversaries, so that you might put an end to the vindictive enemy.  
Psa 8:3 When I look up at the heavens, which your fingers made,and see the moon and the stars, which you set in place,  
Psa 8:4 Of what importance is the human race, that you should notice them?Of what importance is mankind, that you should pay attention to them? 
Psa 8:5 You made them a little less than the heavenly beings. You crowned mankind with honor and majesty.  
Psa 8:6 you appoint them to rule over your creation; you have placed everything under their authority,  
Psa 8:7 including all the sheep and cattle,as well as the wild animals,  
Psa 8:8 the birds in the sky, the fish in the seaand everything that moves through the currents of the seas.  
Psa 8:9 O Lord, our Lord, how magnificent is your reputation throughout the earth!  
Psa 9:1 For the music director; according to the alumoth-labben style; a psalm of David. I will thank the Lord with all my heart!I will tell about all your amazing deeds! 
Psa 9:2 I will be happy and rejoice in you!I will sing praises to you, O Most High! 
Psa 9:3 When my enemies turn back,they trip and are defeated before you. 
Psa 9:4 For you defended my just cause; from your throne you pronounced a just decision.  
Psa 9:5 You terrified the nations with your battle cry; you destroyed the wicked; you permanently wiped out all memory of them.  
Psa 9:6 The enemy’s cities have been reduced to permanent ruins; you destroyed their cities; all memory of the enemies has perished.  
Psa 9:7 But the Lord rules forever;he reigns in a just manner.  
Psa 9:8 He judges the world fairly;he makes just legal decisions for the nations.  
Psa 9:9 Consequently the Lord provides safety for the oppressed; he provides safety in times of trouble.  
Psa 9:10 Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help. 
Psa 9:11 Sing praises to the Lord, who rules in Zion!Tell the nations what he has done!  
Psa 9:12 For the one who takes revenge against murderers took notice of the oppressed; he did not overlook their cry for help 
Psa 9:13 when they prayed: “Have mercy on me, Lord!See how I am oppressed by those who hate me, O one who can snatch me away from the gates of death!  
Psa 9:14 Then I will tell about all your praiseworthy acts; in the gates of Daughter Zion I will rejoice because of your deliverance.”  
Psa 9:15 The nations fell into the pit they had made;their feet were caught in the net they had hidden.  
Psa 9:16 The Lord revealed himself;he accomplished justice;the wicked were ensnared by their own actions. (Higgaion. Selah)  
Psa 9:17 The wicked are turned back and sent to Sheol; this is the destiny of all the nations that ignore God,  
Psa 9:18 for the needy are not permanently ignored, the hopes of the oppressed are not forever dashed.  
Psa 9:19 Rise up, Lord! Don’t let men be defiant! May the nations be judged in your presence!  
Psa 9:20 Terrify them, Lord! Let the nations know they are mere mortals! (Selah) 
Psa 10:1 Why,  Lord, do you stand far off?Why do you pay no attention during times of trouble?  
Psa 10:2 The wicked arrogantly chase the oppressed; the oppressed are trapped by the schemes the wicked have dreamed up.  
Psa 10:3 Yes, the wicked man boasts because he gets what he wants; the one who robs others curses and rejects the Lord.  
Psa 10:4 The wicked man is so arrogant he always thinks,“God won’t hold me accountable; he doesn’t care.” 
Psa 10:5 He is secure at all times. He has no regard for your commands; he disdains all his enemies.  
Psa 10:6 He says to himself, “I will never be shaken,because I experience no calamity.”  
Psa 10:7 His mouth is full of curses and deceptive, harmful words; his tongue injures and destroys.  
Psa 10:8 He waits in ambush near the villages; in hidden places he kills the innocent.His eyes look for some unfortunate victim.  
Psa 10:9 He lies in ambush in a hidden place, like a lion in a thicket; he lies in ambush, waiting to catch the oppressed;he catches the oppressed by pulling in his net.  
Psa 10:10 His victims are crushed and beaten down;they are trapped in his sturdy nets. 
Psa 10:11 He says to himself, “God overlooks it;he does not pay attention;he never notices.” 
Psa 10:12 Rise up, Lord! O God, strike him down! Do not forget the oppressed!  
Psa 10:13 Why does the wicked man reject God? He says to himself, “You will not hold me accountable.”  
Psa 10:14 You have taken notice, for you always see one who inflicts pain and suffering. The unfortunate victim entrusts his cause to you; you deliver the fatherless.  
Psa 10:15 Break the arm of the wicked and evil man!Hold him accountable for his wicked deeds, which he thought you would not discover.  
Psa 10:16 The Lord rules forever! The nations are driven out of his land.  
Psa 10:17  Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed;you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer. 
Psa 10:18 You defend the fatherless and oppressed, so that mere mortals may no longer terrorize them. 
Psa 11:1 For the music director; by David. In the Lord I have taken shelter. How can you say to me, “Flee to a mountain like a bird!  
Psa 11:2 For look, the wicked prepare their bows, they put their arrows on the strings,to shoot in the darkness at the morally upright.  
Psa 11:3 When the foundations are destroyed,what can the godly accomplish?”  
Psa 11:4 The Lord is in his holy temple; the Lord’s throne is in heaven. His eyes watch; his eyes examine all people.  
Psa 11:5 The Lord approves of the godly, but he hates the wicked and those who love to do violence.  
Psa 11:6 May he rain down burning coals and brimstone on the wicked!A whirlwind is what they deserve! 
Psa 11:7 Certainly the Lord is just; he rewards godly deeds; the upright will experience his favor. 
Psa 12:1 For the music director; according to the sheminith style; a psalm of David. Deliver, Lord!For the godly have disappeared; people of integrity have vanished.  
Psa 12:2 People lie to one another; they flatter and deceive.  
Psa 12:3 May the Lord cut off all flattering lips,and the tongue that boasts!  
Psa 12:4 They say, “We speak persuasively; we know how to flatter and boast. Who is our master?”  
Psa 12:5  “Because of the violence done to the oppressed, because of the painful cries of the needy,I will spring into action,” says the Lord.“I will provide the safety they so desperately desire.”  
Psa 12:6 The Lord’s words are absolutely reliable. They are as untainted as silver purified in a furnace on the ground,where it is thoroughly refined.  
Psa 12:7 You,  Lord, will protect them; you will continually shelter each one from these evil people,  
Psa 12:8 for the wicked seem to be everywhere, when people promote evil.  
Psa 13:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. How long, Lord, will you continue to ignore me? How long will you pay no attention to me? 
Psa 13:2 How long must I worry, and suffer in broad daylight? How long will my enemy gloat over me? 
Psa 13:3 Look at me! Answer me, O Lord my God!Revive me, or else I will die!  
Psa 13:4 Then my enemy will say, “I have defeated him!”Then my foes will rejoice because I am shaken.  
Psa 13:5 But I trust in your faithfulness.May I rejoice because of your deliverance!  
Psa 13:6 I will sing praises to the Lordwhen he vindicates me. 
Psa 14:1 For the music director; by David. Fools say to themselves, “There is no God.” They sin and commit evil deeds; none of them does what is right.  
Psa 14:2 The Lord looks down from heaven at the human race, to see if there is anyone who is wise and seeks God.  
Psa 14:3 Everyone rejects God; they are all morally corrupt. None of them does what is right, not even one!  
Psa 14:4 All those who behave wickedly do not understand – those who devour my people as if they were eating bread,and do not call out to the Lord.  
Psa 14:5 They are absolutely terrified, for God defends the godly.  
Psa 14:6 You want to humiliate the oppressed, even though the Lord is their shelter.  
Psa 14:7 I wish the deliverance of Israel would come from Zion!When the Lord restores the well-being of his people, may Jacob rejoice, may Israel be happy!  
Psa 15:1 A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?  
Psa 15:2 Whoever lives a blameless life, does what is right,and speaks honestly.  
Psa 15:3 He does not slander, or do harm to others, or insult his neighbor.  
Psa 15:4 He despises a reprobate, but honors the Lord’s loyal followers. He makes firm commitments and does not renege on his promise.  
Psa 15:5 He does not charge interest when he lends his money. He does not take bribes to testify against the innocent. The one who lives like this will never be shaken.  
Psa 16:1 A prayer of David. Protect me, O God, for I have taken shelter in you. 
Psa 16:2 I say to the Lord, “You are the Lord,my only source of well-being.”  
Psa 16:3 As for God’s chosen people who are in the land,and the leading officials I admired so much – 
Psa 16:4 their troubles multiply;they desire other gods. I will not pour out drink offerings of blood to their gods, nor will I make vows in the name of their gods.  
Psa 16:5  Lord, you give me stability and prosperity; you make my future secure.  
Psa 16:6 It is as if I have been given fertile fieldsor received a beautiful tract of land.  
Psa 16:7 I will praise the Lord who guides me;yes, during the night I reflect and learn.  
Psa 16:8 I constantly trust in the Lord; because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken.  
Psa 16:9 So my heart rejoicesand I am happy; My life is safe.  
Psa 16:10 You will not abandon me to Sheol; you will not allow your faithful follower to see the Pit.  
Psa 16:11 You lead me in the path of life; I experience absolute joy in your presence; you always give me sheer delight. 
Psa 17:1 A prayer of David. Lord, consider my just cause! Pay attention to my cry for help!Listen to the prayerI sincerely offer!  
Psa 17:2 Make a just decision on my behalf! Decide what is right! 
Psa 17:3 You have scrutinized my inner motives; you have examined me during the night. You have carefully evaluated me, but you find no sin.I am determined I will say nothing sinful.  
Psa 17:4 As for the actions of people – just as you have commanded,I have not followed in the footsteps of violent men.  
Psa 17:5 I carefully obey your commands; I do not deviate from them. 
Psa 17:6 I call to you for you will answer me, O God.Listen to me! Hear what I say!  
Psa 17:7 Accomplish awesome, faithful deeds, you who powerfully deliver those who look to you for protection from their enemies. 
Psa 17:8 Protect me as you would protect the pupil of your eye! Hide me in the shadow of your wings!  
Psa 17:9 Protect me from the wicked men who attack me,my enemies who crowd around me for the kill. 
Psa 17:10 They are calloused; they speak arrogantly.  
Psa 17:11 They attack me, now they surround me; they intend to throw me to the ground.  
Psa 17:12 He is like a lion that wants to tear its prey to bits, like a young lion crouching in hidden places.  
Psa 17:13 Rise up, Lord!Confront him! Knock him down! Use your sword to rescue me from the wicked man! 
Psa 17:14  Lord, use your power to deliver me from these murderers, from the murderers of this world! They enjoy prosperity; you overwhelm them with the riches they desire. They have many children,and leave their wealth to their offspring.  
Psa 17:15 As for me, because I am innocent I will see your face; when I awake you will reveal yourself to me. 
Psa 18:1 For the music director; by the Lord’s servant David, who sang to the Lord the words of this song when the Lord rescued him from the power of all his enemies, including Saul.  He said: “I love you, Lord, my source of strength! 
Psa 18:2 The Lord is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter, my shield, the horn that saves me, and my refuge.  
Psa 18:3 I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise, and I was delivered from my enemies.  
Psa 18:4 The waves of death engulfed me,the currents of chaos overwhelmed me. 
Psa 18:5 The ropes of Sheol tightened around me, the snares of death trapped me. 
Psa 18:6 In my distress I called to the Lord;I cried out to my God. From his heavenly temple he heard my voice;he listened to my cry for help. 
Psa 18:7 The earth heaved and shook; the roots of the mountains trembled; they heaved because he was angry.  
Psa 18:8 Smoke ascended from his nose; fire devoured as it came from his mouth; he hurled down fiery coals.  
Psa 18:9 He made the sky sink as he descended;a thick cloud was under his feet.  
Psa 18:10 He mounted a winged angel and flew;he glided on the wings of the wind.  
Psa 18:11 He shrouded himself in darkness, in thick rain clouds.  
Psa 18:12 From the brightness in front of him camehail and fiery coals.  
Psa 18:13 The Lord thundered in the sky;the Most High shouted.  
Psa 18:14 He shot his arrows and scattered them, many lightning bolts and routed them. 
Psa 18:15 The depths of the sea were exposed;the inner regions of the world were uncoveredby your battle cry, Lord,by the powerful breath from your nose.  
Psa 18:16 He reached down from above and took hold of me;he pulled me from the surging water.  
Psa 18:17 He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hate me,for they were too strong for me. 
Psa 18:18 They confronted me in my day of calamity,but the Lord helped me. 
Psa 18:19 He brought me out into a wide open place;he delivered me because he was pleased with me. 
Psa 18:20 The Lord repaid me for my godly deeds; he rewarded my blameless behavior.  
Psa 18:21 For I have obeyed the Lord’s commands; I have not rebelled against my God.  
Psa 18:22 For I am aware of all his regulations, and I do not reject his rules.  
Psa 18:23 I was innocent before him,and kept myself from sinning.  
Psa 18:24 The Lord rewarded me for my godly deeds; he took notice of my blameless behavior.  
Psa 18:25 You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful; you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.  
Psa 18:26 You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless,but you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.  
Psa 18:27 For you deliver oppressed people,but you bring down those who have a proud look. 
Psa 18:28 Indeed, you light my lamp, Lord. My God illuminates the darkness around me. 
Psa 18:29 Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army; by my God’s power I can jump over a wall.  
Psa 18:30 The one true God acts in a faithful manner; the Lord’s promise is reliable; he is a shield to all who take shelter in him. 
Psa 18:31 Indeed, who is God besides the Lord?Who is a protector besides our God?  
Psa 18:32 The one true God gives me strength; he removes the obstacles in my way.  
Psa 18:33 He gives me the agility of a deer; he enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.  
Psa 18:34 He trains my hands for battle; my arms can bend even the strongest bow.  
Psa 18:35 You give me your protective shield; your right hand supports me; your willingness to help enables me to prevail.  
Psa 18:36 You widen my path; my feet do not slip.  
Psa 18:37 I chase my enemies and catch them;I do not turn back until I wipe them out. 
Psa 18:38 I beat them to death; they fall at my feet.  
Psa 18:39 You give me strength for battle;you make my foes kneel before me. 
Psa 18:40 You make my enemies retreat; I destroy those who hate me.  
Psa 18:41 They cry out, but there is no one to help them; they cry out to the Lord, but he does not answer them. 
Psa 18:42 I grind them as fine windblown dust; I beat them underfoot like clay in the streets.  
Psa 18:43 You rescue me from a hostile army; you make me a leader of nations;people over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.  
Psa 18:44 When they hear of my exploits, they submit to me. Foreigners are powerless before me; 
Psa 18:45 foreigners lose their courage; they shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.  
Psa 18:46 The Lord is alive! My protector is praiseworthy! The God who delivers me is exalted as king! 
Psa 18:47 The one true God completely vindicates me; he makes nations submit to me.  
Psa 18:48 He delivers me from my enemies;you snatch me away from those who attack me; you rescue me from violent men.  
Psa 18:49 So I will give you thanks before the nations, O Lord!I will sing praises to you!  
Psa 18:50 He gives his king magnificent victories; he is faithful to his chosen ruler, to David and his descendants forever.”  
Psa 19:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God; the sky displays his handiwork. 
Psa 19:2 Day after day it speaks out; night after night it reveals his greatness.  
Psa 19:3 There is no actual speech or word,nor is its voice literally heard.  
Psa 19:4 Yet its voice echoes throughout the earth;its words carry to the distant horizon. In the sky he has pitched a tent for the sun.  
Psa 19:5 Like a bridegroom it emerges from its chamber; like a strong man it enjoys running its course.  
Psa 19:6 It emerges from the distant horizon, and goes from one end of the sky to the other; nothing can escape its heat.  
Psa 19:7 The law of the Lord is perfectand preserves one’s life. The rules set down by the Lord are reliable and impart wisdom to the inexperienced.  
Psa 19:8 The Lord’s precepts are fair and make one joyful. The Lord’s commands are pure and give insight for life.  
Psa 19:9 The commands to fear the Lord are right and endure forever. The judgments given by the Lord are trustworthyand absolutely just.  
Psa 19:10 They are of greater value than gold,than even a great amount of pure gold;they bring greater delight than honey,than even the sweetest honey from a honeycomb.  
Psa 19:11 Yes,  your servant finds moral guidance there; those who obey them receive a rich reward.  
Psa 19:12 Who can know all his errors? Please do not punish me for sins I am unaware of.  
Psa 19:13 Moreover,  keep me from committing flagrant sins; do not allow such sins to control me. Then I will be blameless,and innocent of blatant rebellion.  
Psa 19:14 May my words and my thoughtsbe acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my sheltering rock and my redeemer.  
Psa 20:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. May the Lord answer you when you are in trouble; may the God of Jacob make you secure!  
Psa 20:2 May he send you help from his temple; from Zion may he give you support!  
Psa 20:3 May he take notice of all your offerings;may he accept your burnt sacrifice! (Selah) 
Psa 20:4 May he grant your heart’s desire; may he bring all your plans to pass!  
Psa 20:5 Then we will shout for joy over your victory;we will rejoice in the name of our God!May the Lord grant all your requests!  
Psa 20:6 Now I am sure that the Lord will deliver his chosen king; he will intervene for him from his holy heavenly temple, and display his mighty ability to deliver.  
Psa 20:7 Some trust in chariots and others in horses, but we depend on the Lord our God.  
Psa 20:8 They will fall down, but we will stand firm.  
Psa 20:9 The Lord will deliver the king; he will answer us when we call to him for help! 
Psa 21:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. O Lord, the king rejoices in the strength you give; he takes great delight in the deliverance you provide. 
Psa 21:2 You grant him his heart’s desire;you do not refuse his request. (Selah) 
Psa 21:3 For you bring him rich blessings; you place a golden crown on his head.  
Psa 21:4 He asked you to sustain his life, and you have granted him long life and an enduring dynasty. 
Psa 21:5 Your deliverance brings him great honor; you give him majestic splendor.  
Psa 21:6 For you grant him lasting blessings;you give him great joy by allowing him into your presence.  
Psa 21:7 For the king trusts in the Lord,and because of the Most High’s faithfulness he is not shaken.  
Psa 21:8 You prevail over all your enemies;your power is too great for those who hate you. 
Psa 21:9 You burn them up like a fiery furnace when you appear; the Lord angrily devours them; the fire consumes them. 
Psa 21:10 You destroy their offspring from the earth,their descendants from among the human race. 
Psa 21:11 Yes, they intend to do you harm; they dream up a scheme, but they do not succeed.  
Psa 21:12 For you make them retreat when you aim your arrows at them. 
Psa 21:13 Rise up, O Lord, in strength! We will sing and praise your power!  
Psa 22:1 For the music director; according to the tune “Morning Doe;” a psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you abandoned me? I groan in prayer, but help seems far away. 
Psa 22:2 My God, I cry out during the day,but you do not answer,and during the night my prayers do not let up. 
Psa 22:3 You are holy;you sit as king receiving the praises of Israel.  
Psa 22:4 In you our ancestors trusted;they trusted in you and you rescued them. 
Psa 22:5 To you they cried out, and they were saved;in you they trusted and they were not disappointed.  
Psa 22:6 But I am a worm, not a man; people insult me and despise me. 
Psa 22:7 All who see me taunt me;they mock me and shake their heads.  
Psa 22:8 They say, “Commit yourself to the Lord!Let the Lord rescue him!Let the Lord deliver him, for he delights in him.” 
Psa 22:9 Yes,  you are the one who brought me out from the womband made me feel secure on my mother’s breasts.  
Psa 22:10 I have been dependent on you since birth; from the time I came out of my mother’s womb you have been my God.  
Psa 22:11 Do not remain far away from me,for trouble is near and I have no one to help me. 
Psa 22:12 Many bulls surround me;powerful bulls of Bashan hem me in. 
Psa 22:13 They open their mouths to devour me like a roaring lion that rips its prey. 
Psa 22:14 My strength drains away like water; all my bones are dislocated;my heart is like wax;it melts away inside me. 
Psa 22:15 The roof of my mouth is as dry as a piece of pottery;my tongue sticks to my gums. You set me in the dust of death.  
Psa 22:16 Yes, wild dogs surround me – a gang of evil men crowd around me;like a lion they pin my hands and feet. 
Psa 22:17 I can count all my bones;my enemies are gloating over me in triumph.  
Psa 22:18 They are dividing up my clothes among themselves;they are rolling dice for my garments.  
Psa 22:19 But you, O Lord, do not remain far away!You are my source of strength! Hurry and help me! 
Psa 22:20 Deliver me from the sword!Save my life from the claws of the wild dogs!  
Psa 22:21 Rescue me from the mouth of the lion, and from the horns of the wild oxen! You have answered me! 
Psa 22:22 I will declare your name to my countrymen! In the middle of the assembly I will praise you! 
Psa 22:23 You loyal followers of the Lord, praise him!All you descendants of Jacob, honor him!All you descendants of Israel, stand in awe of him! 
Psa 22:24 For he did not despise or detest the suffering of the oppressed; he did not ignore him; when he cried out to him, he responded.  
Psa 22:25 You are the reason I offer praise in the great assembly;I will fulfill my promises before the Lord’s loyal followers.  
Psa 22:26 Let the oppressed eat and be filled! Let those who seek his help praise the Lord!May you live forever!  
Psa 22:27 Let all the people of the earth acknowledge the Lord and turn to him! Let all the nations worship you! 
Psa 22:28 For the Lord is king and rules over the nations.  
Psa 22:29 All of the thriving people of the earth will join the celebration and worship; all those who are descending into the grave will bow before him,including those who cannot preserve their lives.  
Psa 22:30 A whole generation will serve him;they will tell the next generation about the Lord. 
Psa 22:31 They will come and tell about his saving deeds; they will tell a future generation what he has accomplished.  
Psa 23:1 A psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing.  
Psa 23:2 He takes me to lush pastures, he leads me to refreshing water.  
Psa 23:3 He restores my strength. He leads me down the right paths for the sake of his reputation.  
Psa 23:4 Even when I must walk through the darkest valley, I fear no danger, for you are with me;your rod and your staff reassure me.  
Psa 23:5 You prepare a feast before me in plain sight of my enemies.You refresh my head with oil;my cup is completely full.  
Psa 23:6 Surely your goodness and faithfulness will pursue me all my days, and I will live in the Lord’s house for the rest of my life.  
Psa 24:1 A psalm of David. The Lord owns the earth and all it contains,the world and all who live in it. 
Psa 24:2 For he set its foundation upon the seas,and established it upon the ocean currents.  
Psa 24:3 Who is allowed to ascend the mountain of the Lord? Who may go up to his holy dwelling place?  
Psa 24:4 The one whose deeds are blamelessand whose motives are pure, who does not lie, or make promises with no intention of keeping them. 
Psa 24:5 Such godly people are rewarded by the Lord, and vindicated by the God who delivers them. 
Psa 24:6 Such purity characterizes the people who seek his favor,Jacob’s descendants, who pray to him. (Selah) 
Psa 24:7 Look up, you gates!Rise up, you eternal doors!Then the majestic king will enter!  
Psa 24:8 Who is this majestic king? The Lord who is strong and mighty!The Lord who is mighty in battle!  
Psa 24:9 Look up, you gates!Rise up, you eternal doors!Then the majestic king will enter!  
Psa 24:10 Who is this majestic king?The Lord of Heaven’s Armies! He is the majestic king! (Selah) 
Psa 25:1 By David. O Lord, I come before you in prayer.  
Psa 25:2 My God, I trust in you.Please do not let me be humiliated;do not let my enemies triumphantly rejoice over me! 
Psa 25:3 Certainly none who rely on you will be humiliated.Those who deal in treachery will be thwarted and humiliated.  
Psa 25:4 Make me understand your ways, O Lord!Teach me your paths!  
Psa 25:5 Guide me into your truth and teach me.For you are the God who delivers me;on you I rely all day long. 
Psa 25:6 Remember your compassionate and faithful deeds, O Lord,for you have always acted in this manner.  
Psa 25:7 Do not hold against me the sins of my youth or my rebellious acts!Because you are faithful to me, extend to me your favor, O Lord!  
Psa 25:8 The Lord is both kind and fair; that is why he teaches sinners the right way to live. 
Psa 25:9 May he show the humble what is right! May he teach the humble his way!  
Psa 25:10 The Lord always proves faithful and reliable to those who follow the demands of his covenant.  
Psa 25:11 For the sake of your reputation, O Lord,forgive my sin, because it is great.  
Psa 25:12 The Lord shows his faithful followersthe way they should live.  
Psa 25:13 They experience his favor; their descendants inherit the land.  
Psa 25:14 The Lord’s loyal followers receive his guidance, and he reveals his covenantal demands to them. 
Psa 25:15 I continually look to the Lord for help, for he will free my feet from the enemy’s net.  
Psa 25:16 Turn toward me and have mercy on me,for I am alone and oppressed!  
Psa 25:17 Deliver me from my distress; rescue me from my suffering!  
Psa 25:18 See my pain and suffering!Forgive all my sins!  
Psa 25:19 Watch my enemies, for they outnumber me;they hate me and want to harm me.  
Psa 25:20 Protect me and deliver me!Please do not let me be humiliated,for I have taken shelter in you! 
Psa 25:21 May integrity and godliness protect me,for I rely on you! 
Psa 25:22 O God, rescue Israelfrom all their distress!  
Psa 26:1 By David. Vindicate me, O Lord,for I have integrity, and I trust in the Lord without wavering.  
Psa 26:2 Examine me, O Lord, and test me!Evaluate my inner thoughts and motives!  
Psa 26:3 For I am ever aware of your faithfulness, and your loyalty continually motivates me. 
Psa 26:4 I do not associate with deceitful men,or consort with those who are dishonest.  
Psa 26:5 I hate the mob of evil men,and do not associate with the wicked.  
Psa 26:6 I maintain a pure lifestyle, so I can appear before your altar, O Lord,  
Psa 26:7 to give you thanks, and to tell about all your amazing deeds. 
Psa 26:8 O Lord, I love the temple where you live, the place where your splendor is revealed.  
Psa 26:9 Do not sweep me away with sinners,or execute me along with violent people,  
Psa 26:10 who are always ready to do wrong or offer a bribe.  
Psa 26:11 But I have integrity! Rescue me and have mercy on me! 
Psa 26:12 I am safe, and among the worshipers I will praise the Lord.  
Psa 27:1 By David. The Lord delivers and vindicates me! I fear no one! The Lord protects my life!I am afraid of no one!  
Psa 27:2 When evil men attack me to devour my flesh, when my adversaries and enemies attack me, they stumble and fall.  
Psa 27:3 Even when an army is deployed against me,I do not fear. Even when war is imminent, I remain confident.  
Psa 27:4 I have asked the Lord for one thing – this is what I desire!I want to live in the Lord’s house all the days of my life,so I can gaze at the splendor of the Lordand contemplate in his temple.  
Psa 27:5 He will surely give me shelter in the day of danger; he will hide me in his home; he will place me on an inaccessible rocky summit. 
Psa 27:6 Now I will triumphover my enemies who surround me! I will offer sacrifices in his dwelling place and shout for joy! I will sing praises to the Lord!  
Psa 27:7 Hear me, O Lord, when I cry out!Have mercy on me and answer me! 
Psa 27:8 My heart tells me to pray to you, and I do pray to you, O Lord.  
Psa 27:9 Do not reject me! Do not push your servant away in anger!You are my deliverer! Do not forsake or abandon me,O God who vindicates me! 
Psa 27:10 Even if my father and mother abandoned me, the Lord would take me in. 
Psa 27:11 Teach me how you want me to live, Lord; lead me along a level path because of those who wait to ambush me! 
Psa 27:12 Do not turn me over to my enemies, for false witnesses who want to destroy me testify against me.  
Psa 27:13 Where would I be if I did not believe I would experiencethe Lord’s favor in the land of the living?  
Psa 27:14 Rely on the Lord!Be strong and confident! Rely on the Lord!  
Psa 28:1 By David. To you, O Lord, I cry out!My protector, do not ignore me! If you do not respond to me, I will join those who are descending into the grave.  
Psa 28:2 Hear my plea for mercy when I cry out to you for help,when I lift my hands toward your holy temple!  
Psa 28:3 Do not drag me away with evil men,with those who behave wickedly, who talk so friendly to their neighbors, while they plan to harm them! 
Psa 28:4 Pay them back for their evil deeds!Pay them back for what they do!Punish them!  
Psa 28:5 For they do not understand the Lord’s actions,or the way he carries out justice. The Lord will permanently demolish them. 
Psa 28:6 The Lord deserves praise, for he has heard my plea for mercy! 
Psa 28:7 The Lord strengthens and protects me; I trust in him with all my heart. I am rescued and my heart is full of joy; I will sing to him in gratitude.  
Psa 28:8 The Lord strengthens his people; he protects and delivers his chosen king.  
Psa 28:9 Deliver your people!Empower the nation that belongs to you! Care for them like a shepherd and carry them in your arms at all times!  
Psa 29:1 A psalm of David. Acknowledge the Lord, you heavenly beings, acknowledge the Lord’s majesty and power!  
Psa 29:2 Acknowledge the majesty of the Lord’s reputation! Worship the Lord in holy attire!  
Psa 29:3 The Lord’s shout is heard over the water; the majestic God thunders, the Lord appears over the surging water.  
Psa 29:4 The Lord’s shout is powerful, the Lord’s shout is majestic.  
Psa 29:5 The Lord’s shout breaks the cedars,the Lord shatters the cedars of Lebanon.  
Psa 29:6 He makes Lebanon skip like a calfand Sirion like a young ox.  
Psa 29:7 The Lord’s shout strikes with flaming fire.  
Psa 29:8 The Lord’s shout shakes the wilderness,the Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.  
Psa 29:9 The Lord’s shout bends the large trees and strips the leaves from the forests. Everyone in his temple says, “Majestic!” 
Psa 29:10 The Lord sits enthroned over the engulfing waters, the Lord sits enthroned as the eternal king.  
Psa 29:11 The Lord gives his people strength; the Lord grants his people security.  
Psa 30:1 A psalm – a song used at the dedication of the temple; by David. I will praise you, O Lord, for you lifted me up, and did not allow my enemies to gloat over me. 
Psa 30:2 O Lord my God,I cried out to you and you healed me. 
Psa 30:3 O Lord, you pulled me up from Sheol;you rescued me from among those descending into the grave. 
Psa 30:4 Sing to the Lord, you faithful followers of his;give thanks to his holy name.  
Psa 30:5 For his anger lasts only a brief moment,and his good favor restores one’s life. One may experience sorrow during the night,but joy arrives in the morning.  
Psa 30:6 In my self-confidence I said,“I will never be shaken.”  
Psa 30:7 O Lord, in your good favor you made me secure. Then you rejected me and I was terrified.  
Psa 30:8 To you, O Lord, I cried out;I begged the Lord for mercy:  
Psa 30:9  “What profit is there in taking my life, in my descending into the Pit? Can the dust of the grave praise you?Can it declare your loyalty?  
Psa 30:10 Hear,  O Lord, and have mercy on me!O Lord, deliver me!” 
Psa 30:11 Then you turned my lament into dancing;you removed my sackcloth and covered me with joy.  
Psa 30:12 So now my heart will sing to you and not be silent;O Lord my God, I will always give thanks to you. 
Psa 31:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter!Never let me be humiliated!Vindicate me by rescuing me! 
Psa 31:2 Listen to me! Quickly deliver me!Be my protector and refuge, a stronghold where I can be safe!  
Psa 31:3 For you are my high ridge and my stronghold;for the sake of your own reputation you lead me and guide me. 
Psa 31:4 You will free me from the net they hid for me,for you are my place of refuge.  
Psa 31:5 Into your hand I entrust my life; you will rescue me, O Lord, the faithful God.  
Psa 31:6 I hate those who serve worthless idols, but I trust in the Lord.  
Psa 31:7 I will be happy and rejoice in your faithfulness,because you notice my painand you are aware of how distressed I am. 
Psa 31:8 You do not deliver me over to the power of the enemy;you enable me to stand in a wide open place.  
Psa 31:9 Have mercy on me, Lord, for I am in distress!My eyes grow dim from suffering. I have lost my strength. 
Psa 31:10 For my life nears its end in pain;my years draw to a close as I groan. My strength fails me because of my sin,and my bones become brittle.  
Psa 31:11 Because of all my enemies, people disdain me; my neighbors are appalled by my suffering – those who know me are horrified by my condition; those who see me in the street run away from me. 
Psa 31:12 I am forgotten, like a dead man no one thinks about; I am regarded as worthless, like a broken jar.  
Psa 31:13 For I hear what so many are saying, the terrifying news that comes from every direction. When they plot together against me,they figure out how they can take my life.  
Psa 31:14 But I trust in you, O Lord!I declare, “You are my God!”  
Psa 31:15 You determine my destiny! Rescue me from the power of my enemies and those who chase me. 
Psa 31:16 Smile on your servant!Deliver me because of your faithfulness!  
Psa 31:17 O Lord, do not let me be humiliated,for I call out to you!May evil men be humiliated!May they go wailing to the grave!  
Psa 31:18 May lying lips be silenced – lips that speak defiantly against the innocent with arrogance and contempt!  
Psa 31:19 How great is your favor, which you store up for your loyal followers! In plain sight of everyone you bestow it on those who take shelter in you.  
Psa 31:20 You hide them with you, where they are safe from the attacks of men; you conceal them in a shelter, where they are safe from slanderous attacks.  
Psa 31:21 The Lord deserves praise for he demonstrated his amazing faithfulness to me when I was besieged by enemies. 
Psa 31:22 I jumped to conclusions and said, “I am cut off from your presence!” But you heard my plea for mercy when I cried out to you for help.  
Psa 31:23 Love the Lord, all you faithful followers of his!The Lord protects those who have integrity,but he pays back in full the one who acts arrogantly.  
Psa 31:24 Be strong and confident, all you who wait on the Lord!  
Psa 32:1 By David; a well-written song.  How blessed is the one whose rebellious acts are forgiven, whose sin is pardoned!  
Psa 32:2 How blessed is the one whose wrongdoing the Lord does not punish, in whose spirit there is no deceit.  
Psa 32:3 When I refused to confess my sin, my whole body wasted away, while I groaned in pain all day long. 
Psa 32:4 For day and night you tormented me; you tried to destroy me in the intense heat of summer. (Selah) 
Psa 32:5 Then I confessed my sin;I no longer covered up my wrongdoing.I said, “I will confess my rebellious acts to the Lord.”And then you forgave my sins. (Selah) 
Psa 32:6 For this reason every one of your faithful followers should pray to youwhile there is a window of opportunity. Certainly when the surging water rises,it will not reach them. 
Psa 32:7 You are my hiding place;you protect me from distress.You surround me with shouts of joy from those celebrating deliverance. (Selah) 
Psa 32:8 I will instruct and teach you about how you should live. I will advise you as I look you in the eye.  
Psa 32:9 Do not be like an unintelligent horse or mule, which will not obey youunless they are controlled by a bridle and bit.  
Psa 32:10 An evil person suffers much pain, but the Lord’s faithfulness overwhelms the one who trusts in him. 
Psa 32:11 Rejoice in the Lord and be happy, you who are godly!Shout for joy, all you who are morally upright!  
Psa 33:1 You godly ones, shout for joy because of the Lord!It is appropriate for the morally upright to offer him praise.  
Psa 33:2 Give thanks to the Lord with the harp!Sing to him to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument!  
Psa 33:3 Sing to him a new song! Play skillfully as you shout out your praises to him! 
Psa 33:4 For the Lord’s decrees are just, and everything he does is fair.  
Psa 33:5 He promotes equity and justice;the Lord’s faithfulness extends throughout the earth.  
Psa 33:6 By the Lord’s decree the heavens were made;and by the breath  of his mouth all the starry hosts. 
Psa 33:7 He piles up the water of the sea; he puts the oceans in storehouses.  
Psa 33:8 Let the whole earth fear the Lord!Let all who live in the world stand in awe of him! 
Psa 33:9 For he spoke, and it came into existence,he issued the decree, and it stood firm. 
Psa 33:10 The Lord frustrates the decisions of the nations;he nullifies the plans of the peoples.  
Psa 33:11 The Lord’s decisions stand forever;his plans abide throughout the ages.  
Psa 33:12 How blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord,the people whom he has chosen to be his special possession. 
Psa 33:13 The Lord watches from heaven;he sees all people.  
Psa 33:14 From the place where he lives he looks carefullyat all the earth’s inhabitants.  
Psa 33:15 He is the one who forms every human heart, and takes note of all their actions.  
Psa 33:16 No king is delivered by his vast army;a warrior is not saved by his great might.  
Psa 33:17 A horse disappoints those who trust in it for victory; despite its great strength, it cannot deliver.  
Psa 33:18 Look,  the Lord takes notice of his loyal followers, those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness  
Psa 33:19 by saving their lives from death and sustaining them during times of famine.  
Psa 33:20 We wait for the Lord;he is our deliverer and shield.  
Psa 33:21 For our hearts rejoice in him,for we trust in his holy name.  
Psa 33:22 May we experience your faithfulness, O Lord, for we wait for you. 
Psa 34:1 Written by David, when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, causing the king to send him away.  I will praise the Lord at all times;my mouth will continually praise him. 
Psa 34:2 I will boast in the Lord;let the oppressed hear and rejoice!  
Psa 34:3 Magnify the Lord with me!Let’s praise his name together!  
Psa 34:4 I sought the Lord’s help and he answered me;he delivered me from all my fears.  
Psa 34:5 Look to him and be radiant;do not let your faces be ashamed.  
Psa 34:6 This oppressed man cried out and the Lord heard;he saved him from all his troubles.  
Psa 34:7 The Lord’s angel camps aroundthe Lord’s loyal followers and delivers them. 
Psa 34:8 Taste and see that the Lord is good!How blessed is the one who takes shelter in him! 
Psa 34:9 Fear the Lord, you chosen people of his, for those who fear him lack nothing! 
Psa 34:10 Even young lions sometimes lack food and are hungry,but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.  
Psa 34:11 Come children! Listen to me!I will teach you what it means to fear the Lord.  
Psa 34:12 Do you want to really live? Would you love to live a long, happy life? 
Psa 34:13 Then make sure you don’t speak evil words or use deceptive speech!  
Psa 34:14 Turn away from evil and do what is right! Strive for peace and promote it! 
Psa 34:15 The Lord pays attention to the godlyand hears their cry for help.  
Psa 34:16 But the Lord opposes evildoersand wipes out all memory of them from the earth.  
Psa 34:17 The godly cry out and the Lord hears;he saves them from all their troubles.  
Psa 34:18 The Lord is near the brokenhearted;he delivers those who are discouraged.  
Psa 34:19 The godly face many dangers, but the Lord saves them from each one of them. 
Psa 34:20 He protects all his bones; not one of them is broken.  
Psa 34:21 Evil people self-destruct; those who hate the godly are punished.  
Psa 34:22 The Lord rescues his servants; all who take shelter in him escape punishment.  
Psa 35:1 By David. O Lord, fight those who fight with me!Attack those who attack me! 
Psa 35:2 Grab your small shield and large shield, and rise up to help me! 
Psa 35:3 Use your spear and lance against those who chase me!Assure me with these words: “I am your deliverer!”  
Psa 35:4 May those who seek my life be embarrassed and humiliated!May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed!  
Psa 35:5 May they be like wind-driven chaff,as the Lord’s angel attacks them! 
Psa 35:6 May their path be dark and slippery,as the Lord’s angel chases them! 
Psa 35:7 I did not harm them, but they hid a net to catch meand dug a pit to trap me.  
Psa 35:8 Let destruction take them by surprise! Let the net they hid catch them!Let them fall into destruction!  
Psa 35:9 Then I will rejoice in the Lordand be happy because of his deliverance.  
Psa 35:10 With all my strength I will say, “O Lord, who can compare to you?You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them; the oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.” 
Psa 35:11 Violent men perjure themselves, and falsely accuse me. 
Psa 35:12 They repay me evil for the good I have done; I am overwhelmed with sorrow.  
Psa 35:13 When they were sick, I wore sackcloth, and refrained from eating food. (If I am lying, may my prayers go unanswered!)  
Psa 35:14 I mourned for them as I would for a friend or my brother. I bowed down in sorrow as if I were mourning for my mother.  
Psa 35:15 But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together;they gathered together to ambush me. They tore at me without stopping to rest.  
Psa 35:16 When I tripped, they taunted me relentlessly, and tried to bite me. 
Psa 35:17 O Lord, how long are you going to watch this? Rescue me from their destructive attacks;guard my life from the young lions!  
Psa 35:18 Then I will give you thanks in the great assembly; I will praise you before a large crowd of people!  
Psa 35:19 Do not let those who are my enemies for no reason gloat over me!Do not let those who hate me without cause carry out their wicked schemes!  
Psa 35:20 For they do not try to make peace with others, but plan ways to deceive those who live peacefully in the land.  
Psa 35:21 They are ready to devour me; they say, “Aha! Aha! We’ve got you!” 
Psa 35:22 But you take notice, Lord; do not be silent!O Lord, do not remain far away from me! 
Psa 35:23 Rouse yourself, wake up and vindicate me! My God and Lord, defend my just cause! 
Psa 35:24 Vindicate me by your justice, O Lord my God!Do not let them gloat over me! 
Psa 35:25 Do not let them say to themselves, “Aha! We have what we wanted!” Do not let them say, “We have devoured him!” 
Psa 35:26 May those who rejoice in my troubles be totally embarrassed and ashamed! May those who arrogantly taunt me be covered with shame and humiliation!  
Psa 35:27 May those who desire my vindication shout for joy and rejoice!May they continually say, “May the Lord be praised, for he wants his servant to be secure.”  
Psa 35:28 Then I will tell others about your justice, and praise you all day long. 
Psa 36:1 For the music director; written by the Lord’s servant, David; an oracle.  An evil man is rebellious to the core. He does not fear God,  
Psa 36:2 for he is too proudto recognize and give up his sin.  
Psa 36:3 The words he speaks are sinful and deceitful;he does not care about doing what is wise and right. 
Psa 36:4 He plans ways to sin while he lies in bed;he is committed to a sinful lifestyle; he does not reject what is evil.  
Psa 36:5 O Lord, your loyal love reaches to the sky; your faithfulness to the clouds.  
Psa 36:6 Your justice is like the highest mountains, your fairness like the deepest sea;you, Lord, preserve mankind and the animal kingdom.  
Psa 36:7 How precious is your loyal love, O God!The human race finds shelter under your wings.  
Psa 36:8 They are filled with food from your house,and you allow them to drink from the river of your delicacies.  
Psa 36:9 For with you is the fountain of life;in your light we see light.  
Psa 36:10 Extend your loyal love to your faithful followers, and vindicate the morally upright!  
Psa 36:11 Do not let arrogant men overtake me,or let evil men make me homeless!  
Psa 36:12 I can see the evildoers! They have fallen! They have been knocked down and are unable to get up!  
Psa 37:1 By David. Do not fret when wicked men seem to succeed! Do not envy evildoers!  
Psa 37:2 For they will quickly dry up like grass,and wither away like plants.  
Psa 37:3 Trust in the Lord and do what is right!Settle in the land and maintain your integrity!  
Psa 37:4 Then you will take delight in the Lord, and he will answer your prayers.  
Psa 37:5 Commit your future to the Lord! Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf. 
Psa 37:6 He will vindicate you in broad daylight,and publicly defend your just cause.  
Psa 37:7 Wait patiently for the Lord! Wait confidently for him!Do not fret over the apparent success of a sinner, a man who carries out wicked schemes!  
Psa 37:8 Do not be angry and frustrated! Do not fret! That only leads to trouble!  
Psa 37:9 Wicked men will be wiped out, but those who rely on the Lord are the ones who will possess the land.  
Psa 37:10 Evil men will soon disappear; you will stare at the spot where they once were, but they will be gone.  
Psa 37:11 But the oppressed will possess the landand enjoy great prosperity.  
Psa 37:12 Evil men plot against the godly and viciously attack them.  
Psa 37:13 The Lord laughs in disgust at them,for he knows that their day is coming.  
Psa 37:14 Evil men draw their swordsand prepare their bows,to bring down the oppressed and needy,and to slaughter those who are godly.  
Psa 37:15 Their swords will pierce their own hearts,and their bows will be broken.  
Psa 37:16 The little bit that a godly man owns is better thanthe wealth of many evil men, 
Psa 37:17 for evil men will lose their power, but the Lord sustains the godly.  
Psa 37:18 The Lord watches over the innocent day by day and they possess a permanent inheritance.  
Psa 37:19 They will not be ashamed when hard times come; when famine comes they will have enough to eat.  
Psa 37:20 But evil men will die;the Lord’s enemies will be incinerated – they will go up in smoke.  
Psa 37:21 Evil men borrow, but do not repay their debt,but the godly show compassion and are generous.  
Psa 37:22 Surely those favored by the Lord will possess the land,but those rejected by him will be wiped out. 
Psa 37:23 The Lord grants success to the onewhose behavior he finds commendable. 
Psa 37:24 Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong, for the Lord holds his hand.  
Psa 37:25 I was once young, now I am old.I have never seen a godly man abandoned,or his children forced to search for food.  
Psa 37:26 All day long he shows compassion and lends to others, and his children are blessed.  
Psa 37:27 Turn away from evil! Do what is right! Then you will enjoy lasting security.  
Psa 37:28 For the Lord promotes justice,and never abandons his faithful followers.They are permanently secure, but the children of evil men are wiped out. 
Psa 37:29 The godly will possess the landand will dwell in it permanently.  
Psa 37:30 The godly speak wise wordsand promote justice.  
Psa 37:31 The law of their God controls their thinking; their feet do not slip.  
Psa 37:32 Evil men set an ambush for the godlyand try to kill them. 
Psa 37:33 But the Lord does not surrender the godly,or allow them to be condemned in a court of law. 
Psa 37:34 Rely on the Lord! Obey his commands! Then he will permit you to possess the land;you will see the demise of evil men. 
Psa 37:35 I have seen ruthless evil men growing in influence, like a green tree grows in its native soil. 
Psa 37:36 But then one passes by, and suddenly they have disappeared! I looked for them, but they could not be found.  
Psa 37:37 Take note of the one who has integrity! Observe the upright!For the one who promotes peace has a future.  
Psa 37:38 Sinful rebels are totally destroyed; evil men have no future.  
Psa 37:39 But the Lord delivers the godly; he protects them in times of trouble.  
Psa 37:40 The Lord helps them and rescues them;he rescues them from evil men and delivers them, for they seek his protection.  
Psa 38:1 A psalm of David, written to get God’s attention.  O Lord, do not continue to rebuke me in your anger!Do not continue to punish me in your raging fury! 
Psa 38:2 For your arrows pierce me,and your hand presses me down. 
Psa 38:3 My whole body is sick because of your judgment; I am deprived of health because of my sin.  
Psa 38:4 For my sins overwhelm me; like a heavy load, they are too much for me to bear. 
Psa 38:5 My wounds are infected and starting to smell, because of my foolish sins.  
Psa 38:6 I am dazed and completely humiliated; all day long I walk around mourning.  
Psa 38:7 For I am overcome with shame and my whole body is sick.  
Psa 38:8 I am numb with pain and severely battered; I groan loudly because of the anxiety I feel.  
Psa 38:9 O Lord, you understand my heart’s desire; my groaning is not hidden from you. 
Psa 38:10 My heart beats quickly;my strength leaves me;I can hardly see.  
Psa 38:11 Because of my condition, even my friends and acquaintances keep their distance; my neighbors stand far away.  
Psa 38:12 Those who seek my life try to entrap me; those who want to harm me speak destructive words;all day long they say deceitful things. 
Psa 38:13 But I am like a deaf man – I hear nothing;I am like a mute who cannot speak.  
Psa 38:14 I am like a man who cannot hearand is incapable of arguing his defense.  
Psa 38:15 Yet I wait for you, O Lord!You will respond, O Lord, my God!  
Psa 38:16 I have prayed for deliverance, because otherwise they will gloat over me; when my foot slips they will arrogantly taunt me. 
Psa 38:17 For I am about to stumble,and I am in constant pain.  
Psa 38:18 Yes, I confess my wrongdoing,and I am concerned about my sins.  
Psa 38:19 But those who are my enemies for no reason are numerous; those who hate me without cause outnumber me. 
Psa 38:20 They repay me evil for the good I have done;though I have tried to do good to them, they hurl accusations at me.  
Psa 38:21 Do not abandon me, O Lord!My God, do not remain far away from me! 
Psa 38:22 Hurry and help me, O Lord, my deliverer!  
Psa 39:1 For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of David. I decided, “I will watch what I sayand make sure I do not sin with my tongue. I will put a muzzle over my mouthwhile in the presence of an evil man.”  
Psa 39:2 I was stone silent; I held back the urge to speak. My frustration grew;  
Psa 39:3 my anxiety intensified. As I thought about it, I became impatient. Finally I spoke these words:  
Psa 39:4  “O Lord, help me understand my mortalityand the brevity of life! Let me realize how quickly my life will pass! 
Psa 39:5 Look,  you make my days short-lived, and my life span is nothing from your perspective. Surely all people, even those who seem secure, are nothing but vapor. (Selah) 
Psa 39:6 Surely people go through life as mere ghosts. Surely they accumulate worthless wealthwithout knowing who will eventually haul it away.” 
Psa 39:7 But now, O Lord, upon what am I relying?You are my only hope!  
Psa 39:8 Deliver me from all my sins of rebellion!Do not make me the object of fools’ insults!  
Psa 39:9 I am silent and cannot open my mouthbecause of what you have done.  
Psa 39:10 Please stop wounding me! You have almost beaten me to death!  
Psa 39:11 You severely discipline people for their sins; like a moth you slowly devour their strength. Surely all people are a mere vapor. (Selah) 
Psa 39:12 Hear my prayer, O Lord!Listen to my cry for help!Do not ignore my sobbing! For I am a foreign resident with you,a temporary settler, just as all my ancestors were.  
Psa 39:13 Turn your angry gaze away from me, so I can be happybefore I pass away.  
Psa 40:1 For the music director; By David, a psalm. I relied completely on the Lord,and he turned toward meand heard my cry for help.  
Psa 40:2 He lifted me out of the watery pit, out of the slimy mud. He placed my feet on a rockand gave me secure footing.  
Psa 40:3 He gave me reason to sing a new song, praising our God. May many see what God has done,so that they might swear allegiance to him and trust in the Lord!  
Psa 40:4 How blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord and does not seek help from the proud or from liars!  
Psa 40:5 O Lord, my God, you have accomplished many things;you have done amazing things and carried out your purposes for us. No one can thwart you! I want to declare them and talk about them,but they are too numerous to recount!  
Psa 40:6 Receiving sacrifices and offerings are not your primary concern. You make that quite clear to me! You do not ask for burnt sacrifices and sin offerings.  
Psa 40:7 Then I say,“Look! I come!What is written in the scroll pertains to me. 
Psa 40:8 I want to do what pleases you, my God.Your law dominates my thoughts.”  
Psa 40:9 I have told the great assembly about your justice. Look! I spare no words! O Lord, you know this is true. 
Psa 40:10 I have not failed to tell about your justice; I spoke about your reliability and deliverance;I have not neglected to tell the great assembly about your loyal love and faithfulness.  
Psa 40:11 O Lord, you do not withhold your compassion from me.May your loyal love and faithfulness continually protect me! 
Psa 40:12 For innumerable dangers surround me.My sins overtake meso I am unable to see;they outnumber the hairs of my headso my strength fails me. 
Psa 40:13 Please be willing, O Lord, to rescue me!O Lord, hurry and help me! 
Psa 40:14 May those who are trying to snatch away my life be totally embarrassed and ashamed! May those who want to harm me be turned back and ashamed!  
Psa 40:15 May those who say to me, “Aha! Aha!”be humiliated and disgraced!  
Psa 40:16 May all those who seek you be happy and rejoice in you!May those who love to experience your deliverance say continually, “May the Lord be praised!”  
Psa 40:17 I am oppressed and needy! May the Lord pay attention to me! You are my helper and my deliverer!O my God, do not delay!  
Psa 41:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. How blessed is the one who treats the poor properly! When trouble comes,  may  the Lord deliver him. 
Psa 41:2 May the Lord protect him and save his life! May he be blessed in the land!Do not turn him over to his enemies!  
Psa 41:3 The Lord supports him on his sickbed;you have healed him from his illness.  
Psa 41:4 As for me, I said: “O Lord, have mercy on me!Heal me, for I have sinned against you! 
Psa 41:5 My enemies ask this cruel question about me, ‘When will he finally die and be forgotten?’  
Psa 41:6 When someone comes to visit, he pretends to be friendly; he thinks of ways to defame me, and when he leaves he slanders me.  
Psa 41:7 All who hate me whisper insults about me to one another; they plan ways to harm me. 
Psa 41:8 They say, ‘An awful disease overwhelms him, and now that he is bed-ridden he will never recover.’ 
Psa 41:9 Even my close friend whom I trusted,he who shared meals with me, has turned against me. 
Psa 41:10 As for you, O Lord, have mercy on me and raise me up,so I can pay them back!” 
Psa 41:11 By this I know that you are pleased with me,for my enemy does not triumph over me. 
Psa 41:12 As for me, you uphold me because of my integrity; you allow me permanent access to your presence.  
Psa 41:13 The Lord God of Israel deserves praise in the future and forevermore! We agree! We agree!  
Psa 42:1 For the music director; a well-written song by the Korahites. As a deer longs for streams of water,so I long for you, O God!  
Psa 42:2 I thirst for God,for the living God.I say, “When will I be able to go and appear in God’s presence?”  
Psa 42:3 I cannot eat, I weep day and night; all day long they say to me, “Where is your God?”  
Psa 42:4 I will remember and weep! For I was once walking along with the great throng to the temple of God,shouting and giving thanks along with the crowd as we celebrated the holy festival.  
Psa 42:5 Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait  for God!For I will again give thanksto my God for his saving intervention.  
Psa 42:6 I am depressed, so I will pray to you while in the region of the upper Jordan, from Hermon, from Mount Mizar.  
Psa 42:7 One deep stream calls out to another at the sound of your waterfalls; all your billows and waves overwhelm me. 
Psa 42:8 By day the Lord decrees his loyal love, and by night he gives me a song, a prayer to the God of my life.  
Psa 42:9 I will pray to God, my high ridge: “Why do you ignore me?Why must I walk around mourning because my enemies oppress me?” 
Psa 42:10 My enemies’ taunts cut into me to the bone, as they say to me all day long, “Where is your God?”  
Psa 42:11 Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God!For I will again give thanksto my God for his saving intervention.  
Psa 43:1 Vindicate me, O God!Fight for me against an ungodly nation!Deliver me from deceitful and evil men!  
Psa 43:2 For you are the God who shelters me. Why do you reject me? Why must I walk around mourning because my enemies oppress me? 
Psa 43:3 Reveal your light and your faithfulness!They will lead me, they will escort me back to your holy hill, and to the place where you live.  
Psa 43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God,to the God who gives me ecstatic joy, so that I express my thanks to you, O God, my God, with a harp.  
Psa 43:5 Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God!For I will again give thanksto my God for his saving intervention.  
Psa 44:1 For the music director; by the Korahites, a well-written song.  O God, we have clearly heard; our ancestors have told uswhat you did in their days,in ancient times.  
Psa 44:2 You,  by your power, defeated nations and settled our fathers on their land; you crushed the people living there and enabled our ancestors to occupy it. 
Psa 44:3 For they did not conquer the land by their swords,and they did not prevail by their strength, but rather by your power, strength and good favor, for you were partial to them. 
Psa 44:4 You are my king, O God!Decree Jacob’s deliverance!  
Psa 44:5 By your power we will drive back our enemies;by your strength we will trample down our foes!  
Psa 44:6 For I do not trust in my bow,and I do not prevail by my sword.  
Psa 44:7 For you deliver us from our enemies;you humiliate those who hate us. 
Psa 44:8 In God we boast all day long,and we will continually give thanks to your name. (Selah) 
Psa 44:9 But you rejected and embarrassed us!You did not go into battle with our armies.  
Psa 44:10 You made us retreat from the enemy.Those who hate us take whatever they want from us. 
Psa 44:11 You handed us over like sheep to be eaten;you scattered us among the nations.  
Psa 44:12 You sold your people for a pittance; you did not ask a high price for them. 
Psa 44:13 You made us an object of disdain to our neighbors;those who live on our borders taunt and insult us. 
Psa 44:14 You made us an object of ridicule among the nations;foreigners treat us with contempt.  
Psa 44:15 All day long I feel humiliated and am overwhelmed with shame,  
Psa 44:16 before the vindictive enemywho ridicules and insults me. 
Psa 44:17 All this has happened to us, even though we have not rejected you or violated your covenant with us. 
Psa 44:18 We have not been unfaithful, nor have we disobeyed your commands.  
Psa 44:19 Yet you have battered us, leaving us a heap of ruins overrun by wild dogs; you have covered us with darkness.  
Psa 44:20 If we had rejected our God, and spread out our hands in prayer to another god,  
Psa 44:21 would not God discover it,for he knows one’s thoughts?  
Psa 44:22 Yet because of you we are killed all day long;we are treated like sheep at the slaughtering block. 
Psa 44:23 Rouse yourself! Why do you sleep, O Lord?Wake up! Do not reject us forever!  
Psa 44:24 Why do you look the other way, and ignore the way we are oppressed and mistreated?  
Psa 44:25 For we lie in the dirt,with our bellies pressed to the ground.  
Psa 44:26 Rise up and help us!Rescue us because of your loyal love!  
Psa 45:1 For the music director; according to the tune of “Lilies;” by the Korahites, a well-written poem, a love song. My heart is stirred by a beautiful song. I say, “I have composed this special song for the king;my tongue is as skilled as the stylus of an experienced scribe.”  
Psa 45:2 You are the most handsome of all men! You speak in an impressive and fitting manner! For this reason God grants you continual blessings.  
Psa 45:3 Strap your sword to your thigh, O warrior! Appear in your majestic splendor!  
Psa 45:4 Appear in your majesty and be victorious! Ride forth for the sake of what is right, on behalf of justice! Then your right hand will accomplish mighty acts!  
Psa 45:5 Your arrows are sharpand penetrate the hearts of the king’s enemies.Nations fall at your feet. 
Psa 45:6 Your throne, O God, is permanent. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice.  
Psa 45:7 You love justice and hate evil. For this reason God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy, elevating you above your companions.  
Psa 45:8 All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, aloes, and cassia.From the luxurious palaces comes the music of stringed instruments that makes you happy.  
Psa 45:9 Princesses are among your honored women, your bride stands at your right hand, wearing jewelry made with gold from Ophir.  
Psa 45:10 Listen,  O princess! Observe and pay attention! Forget your homeland and your family!  
Psa 45:11 Then the king will be attracted by your beauty.After all, he is your master! Submit to him! 
Psa 45:12 Rich people from Tyre will seek your favor by bringing a gift.  
Psa 45:13 The princess looks absolutely magnificent, decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold.  
Psa 45:14 In embroidered robes she is escorted to the king.Her attendants, the maidens of honor who follow her,are led before you. 
Psa 45:15 They are bubbling with joy as they walk in processionand enter the royal palace.  
Psa 45:16 Your sons will carry on the dynasty of your ancestors; you will make them princes throughout the land.  
Psa 45:17 I will proclaim your greatness through the coming years, then the nations will praise you forever.  
Psa 46:1 For the music director; by the Korahites; according to the alamoth style; a song. God is our strong refuge; he is truly our helper in times of trouble.  
Psa 46:2 For this reason we do not fear when the earth shakes, and the mountains tumble into the depths of the sea,  
Psa 46:3 when its waves crash and foam,and the mountains shake before the surging sea. (Selah) 
Psa 46:4 The river’s channels bring joy to the city of God, the special, holy dwelling place of the Most High. 
Psa 46:5 God lives within it, it cannot be moved. God rescues it at the break of dawn.  
Psa 46:6 Nations are in uproar, kingdoms are overthrown. God gives a shout, the earth dissolves.  
Psa 46:7 The Lord of Heaven’s Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob is our protector! (Selah) 
Psa 46:8 Come! Witness the exploits of the Lord,who brings devastation to the earth!  
Psa 46:9 He brings an end to wars throughout the earth; he shatters the bow and breaks the spear;he burns the shields with fire.  
Psa 46:10 He says, “Stop your striving and recognize that I am God!I will be exalted over the nations! I will be exalted over the earth!”  
Psa 46:11 The Lord of Heaven’s Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob is our protector! (Selah) 
Psa 47:1 For the music director; by the Korahites; a psalm. All you nations, clap your hands!Shout out to God in celebration!  
Psa 47:2 For the Lord Most High is awe-inspiring; he is the great king who rules the whole earth!  
Psa 47:3 He subdued nations beneath us and countries under our feet.  
Psa 47:4 He picked out for us a special land to be a source of pride for Jacob, whom he loves. (Selah) 
Psa 47:5 God has ascended his throne amid loud shouts; the Lord has ascended amid the blaring of ram’s horns.  
Psa 47:6 Sing to God! Sing!Sing to our king! Sing!  
Psa 47:7 For God is king of the whole earth!Sing a well-written song! 
Psa 47:8 God reigns over the nations!God sits on his holy throne!  
Psa 47:9 The nobles of the nations assemble,along with the people of the God of Abraham, for God has authority over the rulers of the earth.He is highly exalted!  
Psa 48:1 A song, a psalm by the Korahites. The Lord is great and certainly worthy of praisein the city of our God, his holy hill.  
Psa 48:2 It is lofty and pleasing to look at, a source of joy to the whole earth. Mount Zion resembles the peaks of Zaphon; it is the city of the great king.  
Psa 48:3 God is in its fortresses;he reveals himself as its defender.  
Psa 48:4 For look, the kings assemble; they advance together.  
Psa 48:5 As soon as they see, they are shocked; they are terrified, they quickly retreat.  
Psa 48:6 Look at them shake uncontrollably, like a woman writhing in childbirth.  
Psa 48:7 With an east windyou shatter the large ships.  
Psa 48:8 We heard about God’s mighty deeds, now we have seen them, in the city of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, in the city of our God.God makes it permanently secure. (Selah) 
Psa 48:9 We reflect on your loyal love, O God,within your temple.  
Psa 48:10 The praise you receive as far away as the ends of the earthis worthy of your reputation, O God. You execute justice!  
Psa 48:11 Mount Zion rejoices;the towns of Judah are happy, because of your acts of judgment.  
Psa 48:12 Walk around Zion! Encircle it!Count its towers!  
Psa 48:13 Consider its defenses! Walk through its fortresses,so you can tell the next generation about it! 
Psa 48:14 For God, our God, is our defender forever! He guides us! 
Psa 49:1 For the music director, a psalm by the Korahites. Listen to this, all you nations!Pay attention, all you inhabitants of the world!  
Psa 49:2 Pay attention, all you people, both rich and poor!  
Psa 49:3 I will declare a wise saying; I will share my profound thoughts. 
Psa 49:4 I will learn a song that imparts wisdom;I will then sing my insightful song to the accompaniment of a harp.  
Psa 49:5 Why should I be afraid in times of trouble, when the sinful deeds of deceptive men threaten to overwhelm me? 
Psa 49:6 They trust in their wealthand boast in their great riches.  
Psa 49:7 Certainly a man cannot rescue his brother; he cannot pay God an adequate ransom price 
Psa 49:8  (the ransom price for a human life is too high,and people go to their final destiny),  
Psa 49:9 so that he might continue to live foreverand not experience death.  
Psa 49:10 Surely one sees that even wise people die; fools and spiritually insensitive people all pass away and leave their wealth to others.  
Psa 49:11 Their grave becomes their permanent residence,their eternal dwelling place. They name their lands after themselves,  
Psa 49:12 but, despite their wealth, people do not last, they are like animals that perish.  
Psa 49:13 This is the destiny of fools, and of those who approve of their philosophy. (Selah) 
Psa 49:14 They will travel to Sheol like sheep, with death as their shepherd. The godly will rule over them when the day of vindication dawns; Sheol will consume their bodies and they will no longer live in impressive houses.  
Psa 49:15 But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol;certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah) 
Psa 49:16 Do not be afraid when a man becomes rich and his wealth multiplies! 
Psa 49:17 For he will take nothing with him when he dies;his wealth will not follow him down into the grave.  
Psa 49:18 He pronounces this blessing on himself while he is alive:“May men praise you, for you have done well!”  
Psa 49:19 But he will join his ancestors; they will never again see the light of day.  
Psa 49:20 Wealthy people do not understand; they are like animals that perish.  
Psa 50:1 A psalm by Asaph. El, God, the Lord has spoken,and summoned the earth to come from the east and west. 
Psa 50:2 From Zion, the most beautiful of all places, God has come in splendor.  
Psa 50:3 “May our God comeand not be silent.”Consuming fire goes ahead of himand all around him a storm rages. 
Psa 50:4 He summons the heavens above,as well as the earth, so that he might judge his people.  
Psa 50:5 He says: “Assemble my covenant people before me, those who ratified a covenant with me by sacrifice!”  
Psa 50:6 The heavens declare his fairness, for God is judge. (Selah) 
Psa 50:7 He says: “Listen my people! I am speaking!Listen Israel! I am accusing you! I am God, your God!  
Psa 50:8 I am not condemning you because of your sacrifices,or because of your burnt sacrifices that you continually offer me. 
Psa 50:9 I do not need to take a bull from your householdor goats from your sheepfolds.  
Psa 50:10 For every wild animal in the forest belongs to me,as well as the cattle that graze on a thousand hills.  
Psa 50:11 I keep track of every bird in the hills,and the insects of the field are mine.  
Psa 50:12 Even if I were hungry, I would not tell you,for the world and all it contains belong to me. 
Psa 50:13 Do I eat the flesh of bulls?Do I drink the blood of goats?  
Psa 50:14 Present to God a thank-offering!Repay your vows to the Most High! 
Psa 50:15 Pray to me when you are in trouble! I will deliver you, and you will honor me!” 
Psa 50:16 God says this to the evildoer: “How can you declare my commands,and talk about my covenant?  
Psa 50:17 For you hate instructionand reject my words.  
Psa 50:18 When you see a thief, you join him; you associate with men who are unfaithful to their wives.  
Psa 50:19 You do damage with words, and use your tongue to deceive.  
Psa 50:20 You  plot against your brother; you slander your own brother.  
Psa 50:21 When you did these things, I was silent, so you thought I was exactly like you. But now I will condemn youand state my case against you! 
Psa 50:22 Carefully consider this, you who reject God! Otherwise I will rip you to shreds and no one will be able to rescue you. 
Psa 50:23 Whoever presents a thank-offering honors me. To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.”  
Psa 51:1 For the music director; a psalm of David, written when Nathan the prophet confronted him after David’s affair with Bathsheba.  Have mercy on me, O God, because of your loyal love!Because of your great compassion, wipe away my rebellious acts!  
Psa 51:2 Wash away my wrongdoing! Cleanse me of my sin!  
Psa 51:3 For I am aware of my rebellious acts;I am forever conscious of my sin.  
Psa 51:4 Against you – you above all – I have sinned;I have done what is evil in your sight.So you are just when you confront me; you are right when you condemn me. 
Psa 51:5 Look,  I was guilty of sin from birth,a sinner the moment my mother conceived me. 
Psa 51:6 Look, you desire integrity in the inner man; you want me to possess wisdom.  
Psa 51:7 Cleanse me with hyssop and I will be pure; wash me and I will be whiter than snow.  
Psa 51:8 Grant me the ultimate joy of being forgiven! May the bones you crushed rejoice!  
Psa 51:9 Hide your face from my sins!Wipe away all my guilt!  
Psa 51:10 Create for me a pure heart, O God! Renew a resolute spirit within me! 
Psa 51:11 Do not reject me! Do not take your holy Spirit away from me! 
Psa 51:12 Let me again experience the joy of your deliverance!Sustain me by giving me the desire to obey!  
Psa 51:13 Then I will teach rebels your merciful ways, and sinners will turn to you. 
Psa 51:14 Rescue me from the guilt of murder, O God, the God who delivers me!Then my tongue will shout for joy because of your righteousness.  
Psa 51:15 O Lord, give me the words! Then my mouth will praise you. 
Psa 51:16 Certainly you do not want a sacrifice, or else I would offer it; you do not desire a burnt sacrifice.  
Psa 51:17 The sacrifices God desires are a humble spirit – O God, a humble and repentant heart you will not reject.  
Psa 51:18 Because you favor Zion, do what is good for her! Fortify the walls of Jerusalem!  
Psa 51:19 Then you will accept the proper sacrifices, burnt sacrifices and whole offerings;then bulls will be sacrificed on your altar.  
Psa 52:1 For the music director; a well-written song by David. It was written when Doeg the Edomite went and informed Saul: “David has arrived at the home of Ahimelech.”  Why do you boast about your evil plans, O powerful man?God’s loyal love protects me all day long! 
Psa 52:2 Your tongue carries out your destructive plans; it is as effective as a sharp razor, O deceiver.  
Psa 52:3 You love evil more than good,lies more than speaking the truth. (Selah) 
Psa 52:4 You love to use all the words that destroy, and the tongue that deceives.  
Psa 52:5 Yet God will make you a permanent heap of ruins. He will scoop you up and remove you from your home; he will uproot you from the land of the living. (Selah) 
Psa 52:6 When the godly see this, they will be filled with awe,and will mock the evildoer, saying: 
Psa 52:7  “Look, here is the man who would not make God his protector!He trusted in his great wealthand was confident about his plans to destroy others.”  
Psa 52:8 But I am like a flourishing olive tree in the house of God;I continually trust in God’s loyal love.  
Psa 52:9 I will continually thank you when you execute judgment; I will rely on you, for your loyal followers know you are good.  
Psa 53:1 For the music director; according to the machalath style; a well-written song by David. Fools say to themselves, “There is no God.” They sin and commit evil deeds; none of them does what is right.  
Psa 53:2 God looks down from heaven at the human race, to see if there is anyone who is wise and seeks God.  
Psa 53:3 Everyone rejects God; they are all morally corrupt. None of them does what is right, not even one!  
Psa 53:4 All those who behave wickedly do not understand – those who devour my people as if they were eating bread,and do not call out to God.  
Psa 53:5 They are absolutely terrified, even by things that do not normally cause fear. For God annihilates those who attack you. You are able to humiliate them because God has rejected them. 
Psa 53:6 I wish the deliverance of Israel would come from Zion!When God restores the well-being of his people, may Jacob rejoice, may Israel be happy!  
Psa 54:1 For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a well-written song by David. It was written when the Ziphites came and informed Saul: “David is hiding with us.”  O God, deliver me by your name! Vindicate me by your power!  
Psa 54:2 O God, listen to my prayer!Pay attention to what I say!  
Psa 54:3 For foreigners attack me; ruthless men, who do not respect God, seek my life. (Selah) 
Psa 54:4 Look,  God is my deliverer! The Lord is among those who support me.  
Psa 54:5 May those who wait to ambush me be repaid for their evil! As a demonstration of your faithfulness, destroy them! 
Psa 54:6 With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you!I will give thanks to your name, O Lord, for it is good!  
Psa 54:7 Surely he rescues me from all trouble, and I triumph over my enemies.  
Psa 55:1 For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a well-written song by David. Listen, O God, to my prayer!Do not ignore my appeal for mercy!  
Psa 55:2 Pay attention to me and answer me!I am so upset and distressed, I am beside myself,  
Psa 55:3 because of what the enemy says, and because of how the wicked pressure me, for they hurl trouble down upon me and angrily attack me. 
Psa 55:4 My heart beats violently within me;the horrors of death overcome me. 
Psa 55:5 Fear and panic overpower me; terror overwhelms me. 
Psa 55:6 I say, “I wish I had wings like a dove!I would fly away and settle in a safe place! 
Psa 55:7 Look,  I will escape to a distant place;I will stay in the wilderness. (Selah) 
Psa 55:8 I will hurry off to a place that is safefrom the strong wind and the gale.”  
Psa 55:9 Confuse them, O Lord!Frustrate their plans! For I see violence and conflict in the city.  
Psa 55:10 Day and night they walk around on its walls, while wickedness and destruction are within it. 
Psa 55:11 Disaster is within it;violence and deceit do not depart from its public square.  
Psa 55:12 Indeed, it is not an enemy who insults me,or else I could bear it;it is not one who hates me who arrogantly taunts me, or else I could hide from him. 
Psa 55:13 But it is you, a man like me, my close friend in whom I confided.  
Psa 55:14 We would share personal thoughts with each other; in God’s temple we would walk together among the crowd.  
Psa 55:15 May death destroy them! May they go down alive into Sheol! For evil is in their dwelling place and in their midst.  
Psa 55:16 As for me, I will call out to God,and the Lord will deliver me. 
Psa 55:17 During the evening, morning, and noontimeI will lament and moan, and he will hear me.  
Psa 55:18 He will rescue me and protect me from those who attack me, even though they greatly outnumber me.  
Psa 55:19 God,  the one who has reigned as king from long ago,will hear and humiliate them. (Selah)They refuse to change,and do not fear God.  
Psa 55:20 He attacks his friends; he breaks his solemn promises to them. 
Psa 55:21 His words are as smooth as butter, but he harbors animosity in his heart. His words seem softer than oil,but they are really like sharp swords.  
Psa 55:22 Throw your burden upon the Lord,and he will sustain you. He will never allow the godly to be shaken.  
Psa 55:23 But you, O God, will bring them down to the deep Pit. Violent and deceitful people will not live even half a normal lifespan. But as for me, I trust in you.  
Psa 56:1 For the music director; according to the yonath-elem-rekhoqim style; a prayer of David, written when the Philistines captured him in Gath.  Have mercy on me, O God, for men are attacking me! All day long hostile enemies are tormenting me. 
Psa 56:2 Those who anticipate my defeat attack me all day long.Indeed, many are fighting against me, O Exalted One. 
Psa 56:3 When I am afraid,I trust in you. 
Psa 56:4 In God – I boast in his promise – in God I trust, I am not afraid.What can mere men do to me? 
Psa 56:5 All day long they cause me trouble; they make a habit of plotting my demise.  
Psa 56:6 They stalk and lurk; they watch my every step, as they prepare to take my life.  
Psa 56:7 Because they are bent on violence, do not let them escape! In your anger bring down the nations, O God!  
Psa 56:8 You keep track of my misery. Put my tears in your leather container! Are they not recorded in your scroll?  
Psa 56:9 My enemies will turn back when I cry out to you for help; I know that God is on my side. 
Psa 56:10 In God – I boast in his promise – in the Lord – I boast in his promise – 
Psa 56:11 in God I trust, I am not afraid.What can mere men do to me? 
Psa 56:12 I am obligated to fulfill the vows I made to you, O God; I will give you the thank-offerings you deserve, 
Psa 56:13 when you deliver my life from death.You keep my feet from stumbling, so that I might serve God as I enjoy life.  
Psa 57:1 For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a prayer of David, written when he fled from Saul into the cave.  Have mercy on me, O God! Have mercy on me!For in you I have taken shelter. In the shadow of your wings I take shelteruntil trouble passes.  
Psa 57:2 I cry out for help to God Most High, to the God who vindicates me. 
Psa 57:3 May he send help from heaven and deliver me from my enemies who hurl insults! (Selah)May God send his loyal love and faithfulness!  
Psa 57:4 I am surrounded by lions;I lie down among those who want to devour me; men whose teeth are spears and arrows,whose tongues are a sharp sword.  
Psa 57:5 Rise up above the sky, O God!May your splendor cover the whole earth!  
Psa 57:6 They have prepared a net to trap me; I am discouraged. They have dug a pit for me. They will fall into it! (Selah) 
Psa 57:7 I am determined, O God! I am determined!I will sing and praise you! 
Psa 57:8 Awake,  my soul! Awake, O stringed instrument and harp!I will wake up at dawn!  
Psa 57:9 I will give you thanks before the nations, O Lord!I will sing praises to you before foreigners!  
Psa 57:10 For your loyal love extends beyond the sky, and your faithfulness reaches the clouds.  
Psa 57:11 Rise up above the sky, O God!May your splendor cover the whole earth!  
Psa 58:1 For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a prayer of David. Do you rulers really pronounce just decisions? Do you judge people fairly?  
Psa 58:2 No! You plan how to do what is unjust; you deal out violence in the earth.  
Psa 58:3 The wicked turn aside from birth; liars go astray as soon as they are born.  
Psa 58:4 Their venom is like that of a snake, like a deaf serpent that does not hear,  
Psa 58:5 that does not respond to the magicians,or to a skilled snake charmer.  
Psa 58:6 O God, break the teeth in their mouths!Smash the jawbones of the lions, O Lord!  
Psa 58:7 Let them disappear like water that flows away! Let them wither like grass!  
Psa 58:8 Let them be like a snail that melts away as it moves along! Let them be like stillborn babies that never see the sun!  
Psa 58:9 Before the kindling is even placed under your pots, he will sweep it away along with both the raw and cooked meat.  
Psa 58:10 The godly will rejoice when they see vengeance carried out;they will bathe their feet in the blood of the wicked.  
Psa 58:11 Then observers will say,“Yes indeed, the godly are rewarded! Yes indeed, there is a God who judges in the earth!”  
Psa 59:1 For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a prayer of David, written when Saul sent men to surround his house and murder him.  Deliver me from my enemies, my God!Protect me from those who attack me! 
Psa 59:2 Deliver me from evildoers! Rescue me from violent men!  
Psa 59:3 For look, they wait to ambush me; powerful men stalk me,but not because I have rebelled or sinned, O Lord.  
Psa 59:4 Though I have done nothing wrong, they are anxious to attack. Spring into action and help me! Take notice of me! 
Psa 59:5 You,  O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel,rouse yourself and punish all the nations!Have no mercy on any treacherous evildoers! (Selah) 
Psa 59:6 They return in the evening;they growl like a dogand prowl around outside the city.  
Psa 59:7 Look,  they hurl insults at meand openly threaten to kill me, for they say, “Who hears?”  
Psa 59:8 But you, O Lord, laugh in disgust at them; you taunt all the nations.  
Psa 59:9 You are my source of strength! I will wait for you! For God is my refuge.  
Psa 59:10 The God who loves me will help me; God will enable me to triumph over my enemies. 
Psa 59:11 Do not strike them dead suddenly,because then my people might forget the lesson. Use your power to make them homeless vagabonds and then bring them down,O Lord who shields us! 
Psa 59:12 They speak sinful words. So let them be trapped by their own prideand by the curses and lies they speak!  
Psa 59:13 Angrily wipe them out! Wipe them out so they vanish!Let them know that God rulesin Jacob and to the ends of the earth! (Selah) 
Psa 59:14 They return in the evening;they growl like a dogand prowl around outside the city.  
Psa 59:15 They wander around looking for something to eat;they refuse to sleep until they are full.  
Psa 59:16 As for me, I will sing about your strength;I will praise your loyal love in the morning.For you are my refuge and my place of shelter when I face trouble.  
Psa 59:17 You are my source of strength! I will sing praises to you! For God is my refuge, the God who loves me. 
Psa 60:1 For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a prayer of David written to instruct others. It was written when he fought against Aram Naharaim and Aram-Zobah. That was when Joab turned back and struck down 12,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.  O God, you have rejected us. You suddenly turned on us in your anger. Please restore us! 
Psa 60:2 You made the earth quake; you split it open. Repair its breaches, for it is ready to fall.  
Psa 60:3 You have made your people experience hard times; you have made us drink intoxicating wine.  
Psa 60:4 You have given your loyal followers a rallying flag,so that they might seek safety from the bow. (Selah) 
Psa 60:5 Deliver by your power and answer me, so that the ones you love may be safe.  
Psa 60:6 God has spoken in his sanctuary: “I will triumph! I will parcel out Shechem;the Valley of Succoth I will measure off. 
Psa 60:7 Gilead belongs to me,as does Manasseh! Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my royal scepter.  
Psa 60:8 Moab is my washbasin. I will make Edom serve me. I will shout in triumph over Philistia.”  
Psa 60:9 Who will lead me into the fortified city?Who will bring me to Edom?  
Psa 60:10 Have you not rejected us, O God?O God, you do not go into battle with our armies.  
Psa 60:11 Give us help against the enemy,for any help men might offer is futile.  
Psa 60:12 By God’s power we will conquer; he will trample down our enemies.  
Psa 61:1 For the music director; to be played on a stringed instrument; written by David. O God, hear my cry for help!Pay attention to my prayer!  
Psa 61:2 From the most remote place on earth I call out to you in my despair. Lead me up to a rocky summit where I can be safe! 
Psa 61:3 Indeed, you are my shelter,a strong tower that protects me from the enemy.  
Psa 61:4 I will be a permanent guest in your home; I will find shelter in the protection of your wings. (Selah) 
Psa 61:5 For you, O God, hear my vows;you grant me the reward that belongs to your loyal followers.  
Psa 61:6 Give the king long life!Make his lifetime span several generations!  
Psa 61:7 May he reign forever before God!Decree that your loyal love and faithfulness should protect him. 
Psa 61:8 Then I will sing praises to your name continually, as I fulfill my vows day after day.  
Psa 62:1 For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of David. For God alone I patiently wait; he is the one who delivers me.  
Psa 62:2 He alone is my protector and deliverer.He is my refuge; I will not be upended.  
Psa 62:3 How long will you threaten a man?All of you are murderers, as dangerous as a leaning wall or an unstable fence.  
Psa 62:4 They spend all their time planning how to bring him down. They love to use deceit; they pronounce blessings with their mouths,but inwardly they utter curses. (Selah) 
Psa 62:5 Patiently wait for God alone, my soul! For he is the one who gives me hope.  
Psa 62:6 He alone is my protector and deliverer.He is my refuge; I will not be shaken.  
Psa 62:7 God delivers me and exalts me;God is my strong protector and my shelter.  
Psa 62:8 Trust in him at all times, you people!Pour out your hearts before him! God is our shelter! (Selah) 
Psa 62:9 Men are nothing but a mere breath;human beings are unreliable. When they are weighed in the scales,all of them together are lighter than air.  
Psa 62:10 Do not trust in what you can gain by oppression! Do not put false confidence in what you can gain by robbery! If wealth increases, do not become attached to it! 
Psa 62:11 God has declared one principle;two principles I have heard: God is strong,  
Psa 62:12 and you, O Lord, demonstrate loyal love. For you repay men for what they do.  
Psa 63:1 A psalm of David, written when he was in the Judean wilderness.  O God, you are my God! I long for you! My soul thirsts for you,my flesh yearns for you,in a dry and parched land where there is no water.  
Psa 63:2 Yes, in the sanctuary I have seen you, and witnessed your power and splendor.  
Psa 63:3 Because experiencing your loyal love is better than life itself,my lips will praise you. 
Psa 63:4 For this reason I will praise you while I live;in your name I will lift up my hands.  
Psa 63:5 As if with choice meat you satisfy my soul. My mouth joyfully praises you, 
Psa 63:6 whenever I remember you on my bed,and think about you during the nighttime hours.  
Psa 63:7 For you are my deliverer; under your wings I rejoice.  
Psa 63:8 My soul pursues you; your right hand upholds me. 
Psa 63:9 Enemies seek to destroy my life, but they will descend into the depths of the earth.  
Psa 63:10 Each one will be handed over to the sword; their corpses will be eaten by jackals.  
Psa 63:11 But the king will rejoice in God;everyone who takes oaths in his name will boast,for the mouths of those who speak lies will be shut up. 
Psa 64:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. Listen to me, O God, as I offer my lament!Protect my life from the enemy’s terrifying attacks. 
Psa 64:2 Hide me from the plots of evil men,from the crowd of evildoers.  
Psa 64:3 They sharpen their tongues like a sword;they aim their arrow, a slanderous charge,  
Psa 64:4 in order to shoot down the innocent in secluded places.They shoot at him suddenly and are unafraid of retaliation.  
Psa 64:5 They encourage one another to carry out their evil deed. They plan how to hide snares,and boast, “Who will see them?” 
Psa 64:6 They devise unjust schemes;they disguise a well-conceived plot. Man’s inner thoughts cannot be discovered. 
Psa 64:7 But God will shoot at them;suddenly they will be wounded by an arrow.  
Psa 64:8 Their slander will bring about their demise. All who see them will shudder,  
Psa 64:9 and all people will fear. They will proclaim what God has done, and reflect on his deeds.  
Psa 64:10 The godly will rejoice in the Lordand take shelter in him.All the morally upright will boast.  
Psa 65:1 For the music director; a psalm of David, a song. Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion.Vows made to you are fulfilled.  
Psa 65:2 You hear prayers; all people approach you.  
Psa 65:3 Our record of sins overwhelms me, but you forgive our acts of rebellion.  
Psa 65:4 How blessed is the one whom you choose,and allow to live in your palace courts. May we be satisfied with the good things of your house – your holy palace.  
Psa 65:5 You answer our prayers by performing awesome acts of deliverance,O God, our savior. All the ends of the earth trust in you, as well as those living across the wide seas.  
Psa 65:6 You created the mountains by your power, and demonstrated your strength.  
Psa 65:7 You calm the raging seas and their roaring waves,as well as the commotion made by the nations.  
Psa 65:8 Even those living in the most remote areas are awestruck by your acts; you cause those living in the east and west to praise you. 
Psa 65:9 You visit the earth and give it rain; you make it rich and fertile. God’s streams are full of water; you provide grain for them, for you have prepared the earth in this way. 
Psa 65:10 You saturate its furrows,and soak its plowed ground. With rain showers you soften its soil, and make its crops grow.  
Psa 65:11 You crown the year with your good blessings, and you leave abundance in your wake.  
Psa 65:12 The pastures in the wilderness glisten with moisture, and the hills are clothed with joy.  
Psa 65:13 The meadows are clothed with sheep,and the valleys are covered with grain.They shout joyfully, yes, they sing.  
Psa 66:1 For the music director; a song, a psalm. Shout out praise to God, all the earth!  
Psa 66:2 Sing praises about the majesty of his reputation! Give him the honor he deserves!  
Psa 66:3 Say to God:“How awesome are your deeds!Because of your great power your enemies cower in fear before you. 
Psa 66:4 All the earth worships youand sings praises to you!They sing praises to your name!” (Selah) 
Psa 66:5 Come and witness God’s exploits! His acts on behalf of people are awesome!  
Psa 66:6 He turned the sea into dry land; they passed through the river on foot. Let us rejoice in him there!  
Psa 66:7 He rules by his power forever;he watches the nations.Stubborn rebels should not exalt themselves. (Selah) 
Psa 66:8 Praise our God, you nations!Loudly proclaim his praise!  
Psa 66:9 He preserves our lives and does not allow our feet to slip.  
Psa 66:10 For you, O God, tested us;you purified us like refined silver.  
Psa 66:11 You led us into a trap; you caused us to suffer.  
Psa 66:12 You allowed men to ride over our heads;we passed through fire and water,but you brought us out into a wide open place. 
Psa 66:13 I will enter your temple with burnt sacrifices;I will fulfill the vows I made to you, 
Psa 66:14 which my lips utteredand my mouth spoke when I was in trouble.  
Psa 66:15 I will offer up to you fattened animals as burnt sacrifices,along with the smell of sacrificial rams.I will offer cattle and goats. (Selah) 
Psa 66:16 Come ! Listen, all you who are loyal to God! I will declare what he has done for me.  
Psa 66:17 I cried out to him for help and praised him with my tongue.  
Psa 66:18 If I had harbored sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.  
Psa 66:19 However,  God heard;he listened to my prayer.  
Psa 66:20 God deserves praise, for he did not reject my prayeror abandon his love for me!  
Psa 67:1 For the music director; to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a psalm, a song. May God show us his favor and bless us! May he smile on us! (Selah) 
Psa 67:2 Then those living on earth will know what you are like;all nations will know how you deliver your people. 
Psa 67:3 Let the nations thank you, O God!Let all the nations thank you! 
Psa 67:4 Let foreigners rejoice and celebrate!For you execute justice among the nations,and govern the people living on earth. (Selah) 
Psa 67:5 Let the nations thank you, O God!Let all the nations thank you! 
Psa 67:6 The earth yields its crops.May God, our God, bless us! 
Psa 67:7 May God bless us! Then all the ends of the earth will give him the honor he deserves.  
Psa 68:1 For the music director; by David, a psalm, a song. God springs into action! His enemies scatter;his adversaries run from him.  
Psa 68:2 As smoke is driven away by the wind, so you drive them away. As wax melts before fire,so the wicked are destroyed before God.  
Psa 68:3 But the godly are happy;they rejoice before Godand are overcome with joy.  
Psa 68:4 Sing to God! Sing praises to his name!Exalt the one who rides on the clouds! For the Lord is his name! Rejoice before him! 
Psa 68:5 He is a father to the fatherlessand an advocate for widows. God rules from his holy dwelling place. 
Psa 68:6 God settles those who have been deserted in their own homes; he frees prisoners and grants them prosperity. But sinful rebels live in the desert.  
Psa 68:7 O God, when you lead your people into battle, when you march through the wastelands, (Selah) 
Psa 68:8 the earth shakes,yes, the heavens pour down rainbefore God, the God of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel.  
Psa 68:9 O God, you cause abundant showers to fall on your chosen people. When they are tired, you sustain them, 
Psa 68:10 for you live among them. You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.  
Psa 68:11 The Lord speaks; many, many women spread the good news.  
Psa 68:12 Kings leading armies run away – they run away! The lovely lady of the house divides up the loot.  
Psa 68:13 When you lie down among the sheepfolds, the wings of the dove are covered with silverand with glittering gold.  
Psa 68:14 When the Sovereign One scatters kings, let it snow on Zalmon!  
Psa 68:15 The mountain of Bashan is a towering mountain; the mountain of Bashan is a mountain with many peaks.  
Psa 68:16 Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks,at the mountain where God has decided to live? Indeed the Lord will live there permanently!  
Psa 68:17 God has countless chariots;they number in the thousands. The Lord comes from Sinai in holy splendor. 
Psa 68:18 You ascend on high, you have taken many captives. You receive tribute from men,including even sinful rebels.Indeed the Lord God lives there! 
Psa 68:19 The Lord deserves praise! Day after day he carries our burden,the God who delivers us. (Selah) 
Psa 68:20 Our God is a God who delivers;the Lord, the sovereign Lord, can rescue from death.  
Psa 68:21 Indeed God strikes the heads of his enemies,the hairy foreheads of those who persist in rebellion. 
Psa 68:22 The Lord says,“I will retrieve them from Bashan,I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,  
Psa 68:23 so that your feet may stomp in their blood,and your dogs may eat their portion of the enemies’ corpses.”  
Psa 68:24 They see your processions, O God – the processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor. 
Psa 68:25 Singers walk in front;musicians follow playing their stringed instruments, in the midst of young women playing tambourines.  
Psa 68:26 In your large assemblies praise God,the Lord, in the assemblies of Israel!  
Psa 68:27 There is little Benjamin, their ruler, and the princes of Judah in their robes, along with the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.  
Psa 68:28 God has decreed that you will be powerful. O God, you who have acted on our behalf, demonstrate your power. 
Psa 68:29 Because of your temple in Jerusalem, kings bring tribute to you. 
Psa 68:30 Sound your battle cry against the wild beast of the reeds, and the nations that assemble like a herd of calves led by bulls! They humble themselves and offer gold and silver as tribute. God scatters the nations that like to do battle.  
Psa 68:31 They come with red cloth from Egypt,Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.  
Psa 68:32 O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God!Sing praises to the Lord, (Selah) 
Psa 68:33 to the one who rides through the sky from ancient times! Look! He thunders loudly. 
Psa 68:34 Acknowledge God’s power, his sovereignty over Israel,and the power he reveals in the skies!  
Psa 68:35 You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple! It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength.God deserves praise!  
Psa 69:1 For the music director; according to the tune of “Lilies;” by David. Deliver me, O God,for the water has reached my neck.  
Psa 69:2 I sink into the deep mirewhere there is no solid ground; I am in deep water,and the current overpowers me. 
Psa 69:3 I am exhausted from shouting for help;my throat is sore; my eyes grow tired of looking for my God.  
Psa 69:4 Those who hate me without cause are more numerous than the hairs of my head.Those who want to destroy me, my enemies for no reason, outnumber me. They make me repay what I did not steal!  
Psa 69:5 O God, you are aware of my foolish sins; my guilt is not hidden from you.  
Psa 69:6 Let none who rely on you be disgraced because of me,O Sovereign Lord of Heaven’s Armies! Let none who seek you be ashamed because of me,O God of Israel!  
Psa 69:7 For I suffer humiliation for your sake and am thoroughly disgraced.  
Psa 69:8 My own brothers treat me like a stranger;they act as if I were a foreigner.  
Psa 69:9 Certainly zeal for your house consumes me;I endure the insults of those who insult you. 
Psa 69:10 I weep and refrain from eating food, which causes others to insult me. 
Psa 69:11 I wear sackclothand they ridicule me. 
Psa 69:12 Those who sit at the city gate gossip about me;drunkards mock me in their songs.  
Psa 69:13 O Lord, may you hear my prayer and be favorably disposed to me! O God, because of your great loyal love, answer me with your faithful deliverance!  
Psa 69:14 Rescue me from the mud! Don’t let me sink!Deliver me from those who hate me,from the deep water!  
Psa 69:15 Don’t let the current overpower me!Don’t let the deep swallow me up!Don’t let the Pit devour me! 
Psa 69:16 Answer me, O Lord, for your loyal love is good! Because of your great compassion, turn toward me!  
Psa 69:17 Do not ignore your servant,for I am in trouble! Answer me right away!  
Psa 69:18 Come near me and redeem me! Because of my enemies, rescue me!  
Psa 69:19 You know how I am insulted, humiliated and disgraced;you can see all my enemies.  
Psa 69:20 Their insults are painful and make me lose heart; I look for sympathy, but receive none, for comforters, but find none.  
Psa 69:21 They put bitter poison into my food,and to quench my thirst they give me vinegar to drink.  
Psa 69:22 May their dining table become a trap before them!May it be a snare for that group of friends! 
Psa 69:23 May their eyes be blinded! Make them shake violently! 
Psa 69:24 Pour out your judgment on them!May your raging anger overtake them! 
Psa 69:25 May their camp become desolate,their tents uninhabited! 
Psa 69:26 For they harass the one whom you discipline; they spread the news about the suffering of those whom you punish.  
Psa 69:27 Hold them accountable for all their sins! Do not vindicate them! 
Psa 69:28 May their names be deleted from the scroll of the living! Do not let their names be listed with the godly!  
Psa 69:29 I am oppressed and suffering!O God, deliver and protect me! 
Psa 69:30 I will sing praises to God’s name! I will magnify him as I give him thanks!  
Psa 69:31 That will please the Lord more than an ox or a bullwith horns and hooves.  
Psa 69:32 The oppressed look on – let them rejoice!You who seek God, may you be encouraged!  
Psa 69:33 For the Lord listens to the needy;he does not despise his captive people.  
Psa 69:34 Let the heavens and the earth praise him,along with the seas and everything that swims in them! 
Psa 69:35 For God will deliver Zionand rebuild the cities of Judah,and his people will again live in them and possess Zion.  
Psa 69:36 The descendants of his servants will inherit it,and those who are loyal to him will live in it. 
Psa 70:1 For the music director; by David; written to get God’s attention.  O God, please be willing to rescue me! O Lord, hurry and help me! 
Psa 70:2 May those who are trying to take my life be embarrassed and ashamed! May those who want to harm me be turned back and ashamed!  
Psa 70:3 May those who say, “Aha! Aha!”be driven back and disgraced! 
Psa 70:4 May all those who seek you be happy and rejoice in you!May those who love to experience your deliverance say continually, “May God be praised!”  
Psa 70:5 I am oppressed and needy! O God, hurry to me! You are my helper and my deliverer!O Lord, do not delay!  
Psa 71:1 In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter!Never let me be humiliated!  
Psa 71:2 Vindicate me by rescuing me! Listen to me! Deliver me! 
Psa 71:3 Be my protector and refuge, a stronghold where I can be safe! For you are my high ridge and my stronghold.  
Psa 71:4 My God, rescue me from the power of the wicked,from the hand of the cruel oppressor!  
Psa 71:5 For you are my hope; O Sovereign Lord, I have trusted in you since I was young.  
Psa 71:6 I have leaned on you since birth; you pulled me from my mother’s womb.I praise you continually.  
Psa 71:7 Many are appalled when they see me, but you are my secure shelter.  
Psa 71:8 I praise you constantlyand speak of your splendor all day long. 
Psa 71:9 Do not reject me in my old age! When my strength fails, do not abandon me! 
Psa 71:10 For my enemies talk about me;those waiting for a chance to kill me plot my demise. 
Psa 71:11 They say, “God has abandoned him.Run and seize him, for there is no one who will rescue him!” 
Psa 71:12 O God, do not remain far away from me!My God, hurry and help me! 
Psa 71:13 May my accusers be humiliated and defeated!May those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace!  
Psa 71:14 As for me, I will wait continually,and will continue to praise you. 
Psa 71:15 I will tell about your justice,and all day long proclaim your salvation, though I cannot fathom its full extent.  
Psa 71:16 I will come and tell about the mighty acts of the Sovereign Lord.I will proclaim your justice – yours alone.  
Psa 71:17 O God, you have taught me since I was young,and I am still declaring your amazing deeds. 
Psa 71:18 Even when I am old and gray, O God, do not abandon me,until I tell the next generation about your strength,and those coming after me about your power.  
Psa 71:19 Your justice, O God, extends to the skies above; you have done great things. O God, who can compare to you? 
Psa 71:20 Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress, revive me once again! Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth!  
Psa 71:21 Raise me to a position of great honor! Turn and comfort me! 
Psa 71:22 I will express my thanks to you with a stringed instrument,praising your faithfulness, O my God!I will sing praises to you accompanied by a harp,O Holy One of Israel!  
Psa 71:23 My lips will shout for joy! Yes, I will sing your praises!I will praise you when you rescue me! 
Psa 71:24 All day long my tongue will also tell about your justice,for those who want to harm me will be embarrassed and ashamed.  
Psa 72:1 For Solomon. O God, grant the king the ability to make just decisions! Grant the king’s son the ability to make fair decisions!  
Psa 72:2 Then he will judge your people fairly,and your oppressed ones equitably.  
Psa 72:3 The mountains will bring news of peace to the people,and the hills will announce justice.  
Psa 72:4 He will defend the oppressed among the people;he will deliver the children of the poorand crush the oppressor.  
Psa 72:5 People will fear you as long as the sun and moon remain in the sky,for generation after generation.  
Psa 72:6 He will descend like rain on the mown grass, like showers that drench the earth.  
Psa 72:7 During his days the godly will flourish; peace will prevail as long as the moon remains in the sky. 
Psa 72:8 May he rule from sea to sea, and from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth!  
Psa 72:9 Before him the coastlands will bow down,and his enemies will lick the dust.  
Psa 72:10 The kings of Tarshish and the coastlands will offer gifts;the kings of Sheba and Seba will bring tribute.  
Psa 72:11 All kings will bow down to him;all nations will serve him. 
Psa 72:12 For he will rescue the needy when they cry out for help,and the oppressed who have no defender. 
Psa 72:13 He will take pity on the poor and needy;the lives of the needy he will save.  
Psa 72:14 From harm and violence he will defend them; he will value their lives.  
Psa 72:15 May he live! May they offer him gold from Sheba! May they continually pray for him!May they pronounce blessings on him all day long! 
Psa 72:16 May there be an abundance of grain in the earth;on the tops of the mountains may it sway! May its fruit trees flourish like the forests of Lebanon! May its crops be as abundant as the grass of the earth!  
Psa 72:17 May his fame endure! May his dynasty last as long as the sun remains in the sky! May they use his name when they formulate their blessings! May all nations consider him to be favored by God!  
Psa 72:18 The Lord God, the God of Israel, deserves praise! He alone accomplishes amazing things! 
Psa 72:19 His glorious name deserves praise forevermore!May his majestic splendor fill the whole earth!We agree! We agree!  
Psa 72:20 This collection of the prayers of David son of Jesse ends here. 
Psa 73:1 A psalm by Asaph. Certainly God is good to Israel, and to those whose motives are pure!  
Psa 73:2 But as for me, my feet almost slipped;my feet almost slid out from under me.  
Psa 73:3 For I envied those who are proud,as I observed the prosperity of the wicked.  
Psa 73:4 For they suffer no pain; their bodies are strong and well-fed.  
Psa 73:5 They are immune to the trouble common to men;they do not suffer as other men do. 
Psa 73:6 Arrogance is their necklace, and violence covers them like clothing.  
Psa 73:7 Their prosperity causes them to do wrong; their thoughts are sinful.  
Psa 73:8 They mock and say evil things; they proudly threaten violence.  
Psa 73:9 They speak as if they rule in heaven,and lay claim to the earth.  
Psa 73:10 Therefore they have more than enough food to eat,and even suck up the water of the sea. 
Psa 73:11 They say, “How does God know what we do?Is the Most High aware of what goes on?”  
Psa 73:12 Take a good look! This is what the wicked are like, those who always have it so easy and get richer and richer.  
Psa 73:13 I concluded, “Surely in vain I have kept my motives pureand maintained a pure lifestyle.  
Psa 73:14 I suffer all day long,and am punished every morning.”  
Psa 73:15 If I had publicized these thoughts, I would have betrayed your people.  
Psa 73:16 When I tried to make sense of this,it was troubling to me.  
Psa 73:17 Then I entered the precincts of God’s temple, and understood the destiny of the wicked. 
Psa 73:18 Surely you put them in slippery places;you bring them down to ruin.  
Psa 73:19 How desolate they become in a mere moment!Terrifying judgments make their demise complete!  
Psa 73:20 They are like a dream after one wakes up. O Lord, when you awake you will despise them.  
Psa 73:21 Yes, my spirit was bitter, and my insides felt sharp pain.  
Psa 73:22 I was ignorant and lacked insight; I was as senseless as an animal before you. 
Psa 73:23 But I am continually with you;you hold my right hand.  
Psa 73:24 You guide me by your wise advice,and then you will lead me to a position of honor.  
Psa 73:25 Whom do I have in heaven but you?I desire no one but you on earth.  
Psa 73:26 My flesh and my heart may grow weak, but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.  
Psa 73:27 Yes, look! Those far from you die;you destroy everyone who is unfaithful to you.  
Psa 73:28 But as for me, God’s presence is all I need. I have made the Sovereign Lord my shelter,as I declare all the things you have done.  
Psa 74:1 A well-written song by Asaph. Why, O God, have you permanently rejected us? Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?  
Psa 74:2 Remember your people whom you acquired in ancient times,whom you rescued so they could be your very own nation, as well as Mount Zion, where you dwell!  
Psa 74:3 Hurry to the permanent ruins,and to all the damage the enemy has done to the temple! 
Psa 74:4 Your enemies roar in the middle of your sanctuary; they set up their battle flags.  
Psa 74:5 They invade like lumberjacksswinging their axes in a thick forest.  
Psa 74:6 And now they are tearing down all its engravings with axes and crowbars.  
Psa 74:7 They set your sanctuary on fire;they desecrate your dwelling place by knocking it to the ground.  
Psa 74:8 They say to themselves, “We will oppress all of them.” They burn down all the places where people worship God in the land.  
Psa 74:9 We do not see any signs of God’s presence; there are no longer any prophets and we have no one to tell us how long this will last. 
Psa 74:10 How long, O God, will the adversary hurl insults?Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?  
Psa 74:11 Why do you remain inactive?Intervene and destroy him! 
Psa 74:12 But God has been my king from ancient times,performing acts of deliverance on the earth.  
Psa 74:13 You destroyed the sea by your strength;you shattered the heads of the sea monster in the water.  
Psa 74:14 You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you fed him to the people who live along the coast.  
Psa 74:15 You broke open the spring and the stream; you dried up perpetually flowing rivers.  
Psa 74:16 You established the cycle of day and night; you put the moon and sun in place. 
Psa 74:17 You set up all the boundaries of the earth;you created the cycle of summer and winter.  
Psa 74:18 Remember how the enemy hurls insults, O Lord, and how a foolish nation blasphemes your name!  
Psa 74:19 Do not hand the life of your dove over to a wild animal!Do not continue to disregard the lives of your oppressed people! 
Psa 74:20 Remember your covenant promises, for the dark regions of the earth are full of places where violence rules. 
Psa 74:21 Do not let the afflicted be turned back in shame!Let the oppressed and poor praise your name!  
Psa 74:22 Rise up, O God! Defend your honor! Remember how fools insult you all day long! 
Psa 74:23 Do not disregard what your enemies say, or the unceasing shouts of those who defy you. 
Psa 75:1 For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a psalm of Asaph; a song. We give thanks to you, O God! We give thanks!You reveal your presence; people tell about your amazing deeds.  
Psa 75:2 God says, “At the appointed times, I judge fairly.  
Psa 75:3 When the earth and all its inhabitants dissolve in fear, I make its pillars secure.” (Selah) 
Psa 75:4  I say to the proud, “Do not be proud,”and to the wicked, “Do not be so confident of victory!  
Psa 75:5 Do not be so certain you have won! Do not speak with your head held so high! 
Psa 75:6 For victory does not come from the east or west,or from the wilderness.  
Psa 75:7 For God is the judge! He brings one down and exalts another.  
Psa 75:8 For the Lord holds in his hand a cup fullof foaming wine mixed with spices, and pours it out. Surely all the wicked of the earthwill slurp it up and drink it to its very last drop.”  
Psa 75:9 As for me, I will continually tell what you have done; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob!  
Psa 75:10 God says, “I will bring down all the power of the wicked;the godly will be victorious.”  
Psa 76:1 For the music director; to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a psalm of Asaph, a song. God has revealed himself in Judah; in Israel his reputation is great.  
Psa 76:2 He lives in Salem; he dwells in Zion.  
Psa 76:3 There he shattered the arrows, the shield, the sword, and the rest of the weapons of war. (Selah) 
Psa 76:4 You shine brightly and reveal your majesty,as you descend from the hills where you killed your prey.  
Psa 76:5 The bravehearted were plundered; they “fell asleep.” All the warriors were helpless. 
Psa 76:6 At the sound of your battle cry, O God of Jacob,both rider and horse “fell asleep.”  
Psa 76:7 You are awesome! Yes, you!Who can withstand your intense anger?  
Psa 76:8 From heaven you announced what their punishment would be. The earth was afraid and silent  
Psa 76:9 when God arose to execute judgment,and to deliver all the oppressed of the earth. (Selah) 
Psa 76:10 Certainly your angry judgment upon men will bring you praise; you reveal your anger in full measure.  
Psa 76:11 Make vows to the Lord your God and repay them!Let all those who surround him bring tribute to the awesome one! 
Psa 76:12 He humbles princes; the kings of the earth regard him as awesome.  
Psa 77:1 For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of Asaph. I will cry out to God and call for help!I will cry out to God and he will pay attention to me.  
Psa 77:2 In my time of trouble I sought the Lord.I kept my hand raised in prayer throughout the night. I refused to be comforted.  
Psa 77:3 I said, “I will remember God while I groan;I will think about him while my strength leaves me.” (Selah) 
Psa 77:4 You held my eyelids open; I was troubled and could not speak.  
Psa 77:5 I thought about the days of old,about ancient times.  
Psa 77:6 I said, “During the night I will remember the song I once sang;I will think very carefully.”I tried to make sense of what was happening.  
Psa 77:7 I asked, “Will the Lord reject me forever?Will he never again show me his favor?  
Psa 77:8 Has his loyal love disappeared forever?Has his promise failed forever?  
Psa 77:9 Has God forgotten to be merciful?Has his anger stifled his compassion?” (Selah) 
Psa 77:10 Then I said, “I am sickened by the thoughtthat the Most High might become inactive.  
Psa 77:11 I will remember the works of the Lord.Yes, I will remember the amazing things you did long ago!  
Psa 77:12 I will think about all you have done;I will reflect upon your deeds!”  
Psa 77:13  O God, your deeds are extraordinary! What god can compare to our great God?  
Psa 77:14 You are the God who does amazing things;you have revealed your strength among the nations.  
Psa 77:15 You delivered your people by your strength – the children of Jacob and Joseph. (Selah) 
Psa 77:16 The waters saw you, O God,the waters saw you and trembled. Yes, the depths of the sea shook with fear. 
Psa 77:17 The clouds poured down rain; the skies thundered. Yes, your arrows flashed about. 
Psa 77:18 Your thunderous voice was heard in the wind;the lightning bolts lit up the world;the earth trembled and shook.  
Psa 77:19 You walked through the sea; you passed through the surging waters, but left no footprints.  
Psa 77:20 You led your people like a flock of sheep,by the hand of Moses and Aaron.  
Psa 78:1 A well-written song by Asaph.Pay attention, my people, to my instruction!Listen to the words I speak!  
Psa 78:2 I will sing a song that imparts wisdom;I will make insightful observations about the past.  
Psa 78:3 What we have heard and learned – that which our ancestors have told us – 
Psa 78:4 we will not hide from their descendants.We will tell the next generationabout the Lord’s praiseworthy acts, about his strength and the amazing things he has done.  
Psa 78:5 He established a rule in Jacob;he set up a law in Israel.He commanded our ancestorsto make his deeds known to their descendants,  
Psa 78:6 so that the next generation, children yet to be born,might know about them.They will grow up and tell their descendants about them. 
Psa 78:7 Then they will place their confidence in God.They will not forget the works of God,and they will obey his commands.  
Psa 78:8 Then they will not be like their ancestors,who were a stubborn and rebellious generation,a generation that was not committedand faithful to God.  
Psa 78:9 The Ephraimites were armed with bows, but they retreated in the day of battle.  
Psa 78:10 They did not keep their covenant with God, and they refused to obey his law.  
Psa 78:11 They forgot what he had done, the amazing things he had shown them. 
Psa 78:12 He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors,in the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan.  
Psa 78:13 He divided the sea and led them across it;he made the water stand in a heap.  
Psa 78:14 He led them with a cloud by day,and with the light of a fire all night long. 
Psa 78:15 He broke open rocks in the wilderness,and gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea. 
Psa 78:16 He caused streams to flow from the rock,and made the water flow like rivers.  
Psa 78:17 Yet they continued to sin against him,and rebelled against the Most High in the desert.  
Psa 78:18 They willfully challenged God by asking for food to satisfy their appetite.  
Psa 78:19 They insulted God, saying, “Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness?  
Psa 78:20 Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out,streams gushed forth.But can he also give us food?Will he provide meat for his people?”  
Psa 78:21 When the Lord heard this, he was furious.A fire broke out against Jacob,and his anger flared up against Israel,  
Psa 78:22 because they did not have faith in God,and did not trust his ability to deliver them. 
Psa 78:23 He gave a command to the clouds above,and opened the doors in the sky.  
Psa 78:24 He rained down manna for them to eat;he gave them the grain of heaven.  
Psa 78:25 Man ate the food of the mighty ones. He sent them more than enough to eat.  
Psa 78:26 He brought the east wind through the sky,and by his strength led forth the south wind.  
Psa 78:27 He rained down meat on them like dust,birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores.  
Psa 78:28 He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp,all around their homes.  
Psa 78:29 They ate until they were beyond full; he gave them what they desired.  
Psa 78:30 They were not yet filled up, their food was still in their mouths,  
Psa 78:31 when the anger of God flared up against them.He killed some of the strongest of them;he brought the young men of Israel to their knees.  
Psa 78:32 Despite all this, they continued to sin,and did not trust him to do amazing things. 
Psa 78:33 So he caused them to die unsatisfied and filled with terror.  
Psa 78:34 When he struck them down, they sought his favor; they turned back and longed for God.  
Psa 78:35 They remembered that God was their protector, and that God Most High  was their deliverer. 
Psa 78:36 But they deceived him with their words, and lied to him. 
Psa 78:37 They were not really committed to him, and they were unfaithful to his covenant.  
Psa 78:38 Yet he is compassionate.He forgives sin and does not destroy.He often holds back his anger,and does not stir up his fury.  
Psa 78:39 He remembered that they were made of flesh,and were like a wind that blows past and does not return.  
Psa 78:40 How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,and insulted him in the wastelands! 
Psa 78:41 They again challenged God, and offended the Holy One of Israel.  
Psa 78:42 They did not remember what he had done, how he delivered them from the enemy,  
Psa 78:43 when he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt,and his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan.  
Psa 78:44 He turned their rivers into blood,and they could not drink from their streams.  
Psa 78:45 He sent swarms of biting insects against them, as well as frogs that overran their land. 
Psa 78:46 He gave their crops to the grasshopper,the fruit of their labor to the locust.  
Psa 78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail,and their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain.  
Psa 78:48 He rained hail down on their cattle, and hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock.  
Psa 78:49 His raging anger lashed out against them, He sent fury, rage, and troubleas messengers who bring disaster.  
Psa 78:50 He sent his anger in full force; he did not spare them from death;he handed their lives over to destruction.  
Psa 78:51 He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,the firstfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham.  
Psa 78:52 Yet he brought out his people like sheep;he led them through the wilderness like a flock.  
Psa 78:53 He guided them safely along, and they were not afraid;but the sea covered their enemies.  
Psa 78:54 He brought them to the border of his holy land,to this mountainous land which his right hand acquired.  
Psa 78:55 He drove the nations out from before them;he assigned them their tribal allotments and allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down.  
Psa 78:56 Yet they challenged and defied  God Most High, and did not obey his commands. 
Psa 78:57 They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors;they were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow.  
Psa 78:58 They made him angry with their pagan shrines, and made him jealous with their idols.  
Psa 78:59 God heard and was angry;he completely rejected Israel.  
Psa 78:60 He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh,the tent where he lived among men.  
Psa 78:61 He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured; he gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy.  
Psa 78:62 He delivered his people over to the sword,and was angry with his chosen nation.  
Psa 78:63 Fire consumed their young men,and their virgins remained unmarried.  
Psa 78:64 Their priests fell by the sword,but their widows did not weep.  
Psa 78:65 But then the Lord awoke from his sleep; he was like a warrior in a drunken rage. 
Psa 78:66 He drove his enemies back;he made them a permanent target for insults.  
Psa 78:67 He rejected the tent of Joseph;he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.  
Psa 78:68 He chose the tribe of Judah,and Mount Zion, which he loves.  
Psa 78:69 He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above; as secure as the earth, which he established permanently.  
Psa 78:70 He chose David, his servant,and took him from the sheepfolds.  
Psa 78:71 He took him away from following the mother sheep, and made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people,and of Israel, his chosen nation.  
Psa 78:72 David cared for them with pure motives; he led them with skill.  
Psa 79:1 A psalm of Asaph. O God, foreigners have invaded your chosen land; they have polluted your holy templeand turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.  
Psa 79:2 They have given the corpses of your servantsto the birds of the sky; the flesh of your loyal followersto the beasts of the earth.  
Psa 79:3 They have made their blood flow like waterall around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury them. 
Psa 79:4 We have become an object of disdain to our neighbors;those who live on our borders taunt and insult us. 
Psa 79:5 How long will this go on, O Lord? Will you stay angry forever?How long will your rage burn like fire?  
Psa 79:6 Pour out your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you, on the kingdoms that do not pray to you!  
Psa 79:7 For they have devoured Jacoband destroyed his home.  
Psa 79:8 Do not hold us accountable for the sins of earlier generations! Quickly send your compassion our way, for we are in serious trouble! 
Psa 79:9 Help us, O God, our deliverer!For the sake of your glorious reputation, rescue us!Forgive our sins for the sake of your reputation!  
Psa 79:10 Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”Before our very eyes may the shed blood of your servantsbe avenged among the nations!  
Psa 79:11 Listen to the painful cries of the prisoners! Use your great strength to set free those condemned to die!  
Psa 79:12 Pay back our neighbors in full! May they be insulted the same way they insulted you, O Lord!  
Psa 79:13 Then we, your people, the sheep of your pasture,will continually thank you. We will tell coming generations of your praiseworthy acts. 
Psa 80:1 For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a psalm of Asaph. O shepherd of Israel, pay attention,you who lead Joseph like a flock of sheep!You who sit enthroned above the cherubim, reveal your splendor!  
Psa 80:2 In the sight of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh reveal your power!Come and deliver us! 
Psa 80:3 O God, restore us!Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!  
Psa 80:4 O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies! How long will you remain angry at your people while they pray to you? 
Psa 80:5 You have given them tears as food; you have made them drink tears by the measure.  
Psa 80:6 You have made our neighbors dislike us, and our enemies insult us. 
Psa 80:7 O God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us!Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!  
Psa 80:8 You uprooted a vine from Egypt;you drove out nations and transplanted it. 
Psa 80:9 You cleared the ground for it; it took root, and filled the land.  
Psa 80:10 The mountains were covered by its shadow,the highest cedars by its branches.  
Psa 80:11 Its branches reached the Mediterranean Sea, and its shoots the Euphrates River. 
Psa 80:12 Why did you break down its walls, so that all who pass by pluck its fruit? 
Psa 80:13 The wild boars of the forest ruin it; the insects of the field feed on it. 
Psa 80:14 O God of Heaven’s Armies, come back!Look down from heaven and take notice!Take care of this vine,  
Psa 80:15 the root your right hand planted,the shoot you made to grow!  
Psa 80:16 It is burned and cut down.They die because you are displeased with them. 
Psa 80:17 May you give support to the one you have chosen, to the one whom you raised up for yourself! 
Psa 80:18 Then we will not turn away from you.Revive us and we will pray to you!  
Psa 80:19 O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us!Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!  
Psa 81:1 For the music director; according to the gittith style; by Asaph. Shout for joy to God, our source of strength!Shout out to the God of Jacob!  
Psa 81:2 Sing a song and play the tambourine,the pleasant sounding harp, and the ten-stringed instrument!  
Psa 81:3 Sound the ram’s horn on the day of the new moon, and on the day of the full moon when our festival begins. 
Psa 81:4 For observing the festival is a requirement for Israel; it is an ordinance given by the God of Jacob.  
Psa 81:5 He decreed it as a regulation in Joseph,when he attacked the land of Egypt. I heard a voice I did not recognize.  
Psa 81:6 It said: “I removed the burden from his shoulder;his hands were released from holding the basket.  
Psa 81:7 In your distress you called out and I rescued you.I answered you from a dark thundercloud. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. (Selah) 
Psa 81:8 I said, ‘Listen, my people!I will warn you!O Israel, if only you would obey me! 
Psa 81:9 There must be no other god among you.You must not worship a foreign god.  
Psa 81:10 I am the Lord, your God,the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt.Open your mouth wide and I will fill it!’ 
Psa 81:11 But my people did not obey me; Israel did not submit to me.  
Psa 81:12 I gave them over to their stubborn desires; they did what seemed right to them. 
Psa 81:13 If only my people would obey me! If only Israel would keep my commands!  
Psa 81:14 Then I would quickly subdue their enemies,and attack their adversaries.”  
Psa 81:15  (May those who hate the Lord cower in fear before him!May they be permanently humiliated!)  
Psa 81:16  “I would feed Israel the best wheat, and would satisfy your appetite with honey from the rocky cliffs.” 
Psa 82:1 A psalm of Asaph. God stands in the assembly of El; in the midst of the gods he renders judgment.  
Psa 82:2 He says, “How long will you make unjust legal decisionsand show favoritism to the wicked? (Selah) 
Psa 82:3 Defend the cause of the poor and the fatherless! Vindicate the oppressed and suffering!  
Psa 82:4 Rescue the poor and needy!Deliver them from the power of the wicked!  
Psa 82:5 They neither know nor understand.They stumble around in the dark,while all the foundations of the earth crumble.  
Psa 82:6 I thought, ‘You are gods;all of you are sons of the Most High.’ 
Psa 82:7 Yet you will die like mortals; you will fall like all the other rulers.”  
Psa 82:8 Rise up, O God, and execute judgment on the earth!For you own all the nations.  
Psa 83:1 A song, a psalm of Asaph. O God, do not be silent!Do not ignore us! Do not be inactive, O God!  
Psa 83:2 For look, your enemies are making a commotion;those who hate you are hostile.  
Psa 83:3 They carefully plot against your people,and make plans to harm the ones you cherish.  
Psa 83:4 They say, “Come on, let’s annihilate them so they are no longer a nation! Then the name of Israel will be remembered no more.”  
Psa 83:5 Yes, they devise a unified strategy; they form an alliance against you. 
Psa 83:6 It includes the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites,Moab and the Hagrites,  
Psa 83:7 Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek,Philistia and the inhabitants of Tyre.  
Psa 83:8 Even Assyria has allied with them,lending its strength to the descendants of Lot. (Selah) 
Psa 83:9 Do to them as you did to Midian – as you did to Sisera and Jabin at the Kishon River!  
Psa 83:10 They were destroyed at En Dor; their corpses were like manure on the ground.  
Psa 83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, and all their rulers like Zebah and Zalmunna,  
Psa 83:12 who said, “Let’s take over the pastures of God!”  
Psa 83:13 O my God, make them like dead thistles, like dead weeds blown away by the wind!  
Psa 83:14 Like the fire that burns down the forest,or the flames that consume the mountainsides,  
Psa 83:15 chase them with your gale winds,and terrify them with your windstorm.  
Psa 83:16 Cover their faces with shame,so they might seek you, O Lord.  
Psa 83:17 May they be humiliated and continually terrified! May they die in shame!  
Psa 83:18 Then they will know that you alone are the Lord, the Most High over all the earth.  
Psa 84:1 For the music director; according to the gittith style; written by the Korahites, a psalm. How lovely is the place where you live, O Lord of Heaven’s Armies!  
Psa 84:2 I desperately want to be in the courts of the Lord’s temple. My heart and my entire being shout for joyto the living God.  
Psa 84:3 Even the birds find a home there,and the swallow builds a nest,where she can protect her young near your altars, O Lord of Heaven’s Armies,my king and my God.  
Psa 84:4 How blessed are those who live in your templeand praise you continually! (Selah) 
Psa 84:5 How blessed are those who find their strength in you,and long to travel the roads that lead to your temple! 
Psa 84:6 As they pass through the Baca Valley, he provides a spring for them. The rain even covers it with pools of water.  
Psa 84:7 They are sustained as they travel along; each one appears before God in Zion.  
Psa 84:8 O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, hear my prayer!Listen, O God of Jacob! (Selah) 
Psa 84:9 O God, take notice of our shield! Show concern for your chosen king!  
Psa 84:10 Certainly spending just one day in your temple courts is betterthan spending a thousand elsewhere. I would rather stand at the entrance to the temple of my Godthan live in the tents of the wicked.  
Psa 84:11 For the Lord God is our sovereign protector. The Lord bestows favor and honor;he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.  
Psa 84:12 O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, how blessed are those who trust in you! 
Psa 85:1 For the music director; written by the Korahites, a psalm. O Lord, you showed favor to your land;you restored the well-being of Jacob.  
Psa 85:2 You pardoned the wrongdoing of your people;you forgave all their sin. (Selah) 
Psa 85:3 You withdrew all your fury;you turned back from your raging anger.  
Psa 85:4 Restore us, O God our deliverer!Do not be displeased with us! 
Psa 85:5 Will you stay mad at us forever?Will you remain angry throughout future generations?  
Psa 85:6 Will you not revive us once more?Then your people will rejoice in you!  
Psa 85:7 O Lord, show us your loyal love!Bestow on us your deliverance!  
Psa 85:8 I will listen to what God the Lord says. For he will make peace with his people, his faithful followers. Yet they must not return to their foolish ways. 
Psa 85:9 Certainly his loyal followers will soon experience his deliverance; then his splendor will again appear in our land.  
Psa 85:10 Loyal love and faithfulness meet; deliverance and peace greet each other with a kiss.  
Psa 85:11 Faithfulness grows from the ground,and deliverance looks down from the sky.  
Psa 85:12 Yes,  the Lord will bestow his good blessings, and our land will yield its crops.  
Psa 85:13 Deliverance goes before him,and prepares a pathway for him. 
Psa 86:1 A prayer of David. Listen O Lord! Answer me!For I am oppressed and needy.  
Psa 86:2 Protect me, for I am loyal!You are my God; deliver your servant who trusts in you! 
Psa 86:3 Have mercy on me, O Lord,for I cry out to you all day long! 
Psa 86:4 Make your servant glad,for to you, O Lord, I pray!  
Psa 86:5 Certainly O Lord, you are kind and forgiving,and show great faithfulness to all who cry out to you. 
Psa 86:6 O Lord, hear my prayer!Pay attention to my plea for mercy!  
Psa 86:7 In my time of trouble I cry out to you,for you will answer me. 
Psa 86:8 None can compare to you among the gods, O Lord!Your exploits are incomparable!  
Psa 86:9 All the nations, whom you created,will come and worship you, O Lord.They will honor your name.  
Psa 86:10 For you are great and do amazing things.You alone are God.  
Psa 86:11 O Lord, teach me how you want me to live! Then I will obey your commands. Make me wholeheartedly committed to you! 
Psa 86:12 O Lord, my God, I will give you thanks with my whole heart!I will honor your name continually!  
Psa 86:13 For you will extend your great loyal love to me, and will deliver my life from the depths of Sheol.  
Psa 86:14 O God, arrogant men attack me; a gang of ruthless men, who do not respect you, seek my life.  
Psa 86:15 But you, O Lord, are a compassionate and merciful God.You are patient and demonstrate great loyal love and faithfulness.  
Psa 86:16 Turn toward me and have mercy on me!Give your servant your strength!Deliver this son of your female servant!  
Psa 86:17 Show me evidence of your favor! Then those who hate me will see it and be ashamed, for you, O Lord, will help me and comfort me. 
Psa 87:1 Written by the Korahites; a psalm, a song. The Lord’s city is in the holy hills.  
Psa 87:2 The Lord loves the gates of Zionmore than all the dwelling places of Jacob.  
Psa 87:3 People say wonderful things about you, O city of God. (Selah) 
Psa 87:4 I mention Rahab and Babylon to my followers. Here are Philistia and Tyre, along with Ethiopia. It is said of them, “This one was born there.”  
Psa 87:5 But it is said of Zion’s residents, “Each one of these was born in her,and the Most High makes her secure.”  
Psa 87:6 The Lord writes in the census book of the nations, “This one was born there.” (Selah) 
Psa 87:7 As for the singers, as well as the pipers – all of them sing within your walls. 
Psa 88:1 A song, a psalm written by the Korahites; for the music director; according to the machalath-leannoth style; a well-written song by Heman the Ezrachite. O Lord God who delivers me! By day I cry outand at night I pray before you. 
Psa 88:2 Listen to my prayer! Pay attention to my cry for help! 
Psa 88:3 For my life is filled with troublesand I am ready to enter Sheol.  
Psa 88:4 They treat me like those who descend into the grave. I am like a helpless man,  
Psa 88:5 adrift among the dead,like corpses lying in the grave,whom you remember no more,and who are cut off from your power.  
Psa 88:6 You place me in the lowest regions of the Pit, in the dark places, in the watery depths.  
Psa 88:7 Your anger bears down on me,and you overwhelm me with all your waves. (Selah) 
Psa 88:8 You cause those who know me to keep their distance;you make me an appalling sight to them.I am trapped and cannot get free.  
Psa 88:9 My eyes grow weak because of oppression.I call out to you, O Lord, all day long;I spread out my hands in prayer to you. 
Psa 88:10 Do you accomplish amazing things for the dead?Do the departed spirits rise up and give you thanks? (Selah) 
Psa 88:11 Is your loyal love proclaimed in the grave,or your faithfulness in the place of the dead?  
Psa 88:12 Are your amazing deeds experienced in the dark region, or your deliverance in the land of oblivion?  
Psa 88:13 As for me, I cry out to you, O Lord;in the morning my prayer confronts you. 
Psa 88:14 O Lord, why do you reject me,and pay no attention to me?  
Psa 88:15 I am oppressed and have been on the verge of death since my youth. I have been subjected to your horrors and am numb with pain.  
Psa 88:16 Your anger overwhelms me; your terrors destroy me. 
Psa 88:17 They surround me like water all day long;they join forces and encircle me. 
Psa 88:18 You cause my friends and neighbors to keep their distance; those who know me leave me alone in the darkness.  
Psa 89:1 A well-written song by Ethan the Ezrachite. I will sing continually about the Lord’s faithful deeds;to future generations I will proclaim your faithfulness.  
Psa 89:2 For I say, “Loyal love is permanently established; in the skies you set up your faithfulness.”  
Psa 89:3 The Lord said, “I have made a covenant with my chosen one;I have made a promise on oath to David, my servant:  
Psa 89:4  ‘I will give you an eternal dynasty and establish your throne throughout future generations.’” (Selah) 
Psa 89:5 O Lord, the heavens praise your amazing deeds,as well as your faithfulness in the angelic assembly.  
Psa 89:6 For who in the skies can compare to the Lord?Who is like the Lord among the heavenly beings,  
Psa 89:7 a God who is honored in the great angelic assembly, and more awesome than all who surround him? 
Psa 89:8 O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies! Who is strong like you, O Lord?Your faithfulness surrounds you. 
Psa 89:9 You rule over the proud sea. When its waves surge, you calm them. 
Psa 89:10 You crushed the Proud One and killed it; with your strong arm you scattered your enemies.  
Psa 89:11 The heavens belong to you, as does the earth.You made the world and all it contains.  
Psa 89:12 You created the north and the south.Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.  
Psa 89:13 Your arm is powerful,your hand strong,your right hand victorious.  
Psa 89:14 Equity and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loyal love and faithfulness characterize your rule.  
Psa 89:15 How blessed are the people who worship you! O Lord, they experience your favor.  
Psa 89:16 They rejoice in your name all day long,and are vindicated by your justice.  
Psa 89:17 For you give them splendor and strength. By your favor we are victorious.  
Psa 89:18 For our shield belongs to the Lord,our king to the Holy One of Israel.  
Psa 89:19 Then you spoke through a vision to your faithful followers and said:“I have placed a young hero  over a warrior;I have raised up a young man  from the people.  
Psa 89:20 I have discovered David, my servant.With my holy oil I have anointed him as king. 
Psa 89:21 My hand will support him, and my arm will strengthen him. 
Psa 89:22 No enemy will be able to exact tribute from him; a violent oppressor will not be able to humiliate him. 
Psa 89:23 I will crush his enemies before him;I will strike down those who hate him. 
Psa 89:24 He will experience my faithfulness and loyal love, and by my name he will win victories.  
Psa 89:25 I will place his hand over the sea,his right hand over the rivers.  
Psa 89:26 He will call out to me,‘You are my father, my God, and the protector who delivers me.’ 
Psa 89:27 I will appoint him to be my firstborn son, the most exalted of the earth’s kings.  
Psa 89:28 I will always extend my loyal love to him,and my covenant with him is secure.  
Psa 89:29 I will give him an eternal dynasty, and make his throne as enduring as the skies above. 
Psa 89:30 If his sons reject my lawand disobey my regulations,  
Psa 89:31 if they break my rulesand do not keep my commandments,  
Psa 89:32 I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a club, their sin by inflicting them with bruises.  
Psa 89:33 But I will not remove my loyal love from him,nor be unfaithful to my promise.  
Psa 89:34 I will not break my covenantor go back on what I promised.  
Psa 89:35 Once and for all I have vowed by my own holiness,I will never deceive David.  
Psa 89:36 His dynasty will last forever. His throne will endure before me, like the sun,  
Psa 89:37 it will remain stable, like the moon, his throne will endure like the skies.” (Selah) 
Psa 89:38 But you have spurned and rejected him;you are angry with your chosen king.  
Psa 89:39 You have repudiated your covenant with your servant; you have thrown his crown to the ground.  
Psa 89:40 You have broken down all his walls;you have made his strongholds a heap of ruins. 
Psa 89:41 All who pass by have robbed him;he has become an object of disdain to his neighbors.  
Psa 89:42 You have allowed his adversaries to be victorious, and all his enemies to rejoice.  
Psa 89:43 You turn back his sword from the adversary, and have not sustained him in battle.  
Psa 89:44 You have brought to an end his splendor, and have knocked his throne to the ground.  
Psa 89:45 You have cut short his youth, and have covered him with shame. (Selah) 
Psa 89:46 How long, O Lord, will this last?Will you remain hidden forever? Will your anger continue to burn like fire?  
Psa 89:47 Take note of my brief lifespan! Why do you make all people so mortal?  
Psa 89:48 No man can live on without experiencing death,or deliver his life from the power of Sheol. (Selah) 
Psa 89:49 Where are your earlier faithful deeds, O Lord, the ones performed in accordance with your reliable oath to David?  
Psa 89:50 Take note, O Lord, of the way your servants are taunted, and of how I must bear so many insults from people!  
Psa 89:51 Your enemies, O Lord, hurl insults;they insult your chosen king as they dog his footsteps. 
Psa 89:52  The Lord deserves praise forevermore!We agree! We agree!  
Psa 90:1 A prayer of Moses, the man of God. O Lord, you have been our protector through all generations!  
Psa 90:2 Even before the mountains came into existence, or you brought the world into being, you were the eternal God.  
Psa 90:3 You make mankind return to the dust, and say, “Return, O people!”  
Psa 90:4 Yes, in your eyes a thousand yearsare like yesterday that quickly passes,or like one of the divisions of the nighttime.  
Psa 90:5 You bring their lives to an end and they “fall asleep.” In the morning they are like the grass that sprouts up;  
Psa 90:6 in the morning it glistens and sprouts up;at evening time it withers and dries up. 
Psa 90:7 Yes, we are consumed by your anger;we are terrified by your wrath.  
Psa 90:8 You are aware of our sins; you even know about our hidden sins.  
Psa 90:9 Yes, throughout all our days we experience your raging fury; the years of our lives pass quickly, like a sigh.  
Psa 90:10 The days of our lives add up to seventy years, or eighty, if one is especially strong. But even one’s best years are marred by trouble and oppression. Yes, they pass quickly and we fly away.  
Psa 90:11 Who can really fathom the intensity of your anger? Your raging fury causes people to fear you. 
Psa 90:12 So teach us to consider our mortality, so that we might live wisely.  
Psa 90:13 Turn back toward us, O Lord!How long must this suffering last? Have pity on your servants!  
Psa 90:14 Satisfy us in the morning with your loyal love!Then we will shout for joy and be happy all our days!  
Psa 90:15 Make us happy in proportion to the days you have afflicted us,in proportion to the years we have experienced trouble!  
Psa 90:16 May your servants see your work! May their sons see your majesty!  
Psa 90:17 May our sovereign God extend his favor to us! Make our endeavors successful!Yes, make them successful!  
Psa 91:1 As for you, the one who lives in the shelter of the Most High, and resides in the protective shadow of the Sovereign One – 
Psa 91:2 I say this about the Lord, my shelter and my stronghold,my God in whom I trust – 
Psa 91:3 he will certainly rescue you from the snare of the hunter and from the destructive plague.  
Psa 91:4 He will shelter you with his wings; you will find safety under his wings.His faithfulness is like a shield or a protective wall.  
Psa 91:5 You need not fear the terrors of the night, the arrow that flies by day,  
Psa 91:6 the plague that stalks in the darkness,or the disease that ravages at noon.  
Psa 91:7 Though a thousand may fall beside you,and a multitude on your right side,it will not reach you. 
Psa 91:8 Certainly you will see it with your very own eyes – you will see the wicked paid back.  
Psa 91:9 For you have taken refuge in the Lord,my shelter, the Most High. 
Psa 91:10 No harm will overtake you;no illness will come near your home.  
Psa 91:11 For he will order his angels to protect you in all you do.  
Psa 91:12 They will lift you up in their hands,so you will not slip and fall on a stone.  
Psa 91:13 You will subdue a lion and a snake; you will trample underfoot a young lion and a serpent.  
Psa 91:14 The Lord says, “Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him;I will protect him because he is loyal to me.  
Psa 91:15 When he calls out to me, I will answer him.I will be with him when he is in trouble;I will rescue him and bring him honor.  
Psa 91:16 I will satisfy him with long life, and will let him see my salvation.  
Psa 92:1 A psalm; a song for the Sabbath day. It is fitting to thank the Lord,and to sing praises to your name, O Most High! 
Psa 92:2 It is fitting to proclaim your loyal love in the morning,and your faithfulness during the night,  
Psa 92:3 to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument and a lyre,to the accompaniment of the meditative tone of the harp.  
Psa 92:4 For you, O Lord, have made me happy by your work.I will sing for joy because of what you have done.  
Psa 92:5 How great are your works, O Lord!Your plans are very intricate!  
Psa 92:6 The spiritually insensitive do not recognize this;the fool does not understand this.  
Psa 92:7 When the wicked sprout up like grass,and all the evildoers glisten, it is so that they may be annihilated. 
Psa 92:8 But you, O Lord, reign forever!  
Psa 92:9 Indeed, look at your enemies, O Lord!Indeed, look at how your enemies perish!All the evildoers are scattered!  
Psa 92:10 You exalt my horn like that of a wild ox. I am covered with fresh oil.  
Psa 92:11 I gloat in triumph over those who tried to ambush me; I hear the defeated cries of the evil foes who attacked me.  
Psa 92:12 The godly grow like a palm tree;they grow high like a cedar in Lebanon.  
Psa 92:13 Planted in the Lord’s house,they grow in the courts of our God.  
Psa 92:14 They bear fruit even when they are old;they are filled with vitality and have many leaves.  
Psa 92:15 So they proclaim that the Lord, my protector,is just and never unfair.  
Psa 93:1 The Lord reigns!He is robed in majesty,the Lord is robed,he wears strength around his waist. Indeed, the world is established, it cannot be moved.  
Psa 93:2 Your throne has been secure from ancient times;you have always been king. 
Psa 93:3 The waves roar, O Lord,the waves roar,the waves roar and crash.  
Psa 93:4 Above the sound of the surging water, and the mighty waves of the sea,the Lord sits enthroned in majesty.  
Psa 93:5 The rules you set down are completely reliable. Holiness aptly adorns your house, O Lord, forever.  
Psa 94:1 O Lord, the God who avenges!O God who avenges, reveal your splendor!  
Psa 94:2 Rise up, O judge of the earth!Pay back the proud!  
Psa 94:3 O Lord, how long will the wicked,how long will the wicked celebrate?  
Psa 94:4 They spew out threats and speak defiantly;all the evildoers boast.  
Psa 94:5 O Lord, they crush your people;they oppress the nation that belongs to you. 
Psa 94:6 They kill the widow and the resident foreigner,and they murder the fatherless.  
Psa 94:7 Then they say, “The Lord does not see this;the God of Jacob does not take notice of it.” 
Psa 94:8 Take notice of this, you ignorant people! You fools, when will you ever understand?  
Psa 94:9 Does the one who makes the human ear not hear?Does the one who forms the human eye not see?  
Psa 94:10 Does the one who disciplines the nations not punish?He is the one who imparts knowledge to human beings! 
Psa 94:11 The Lord knows thatpeoples’ thoughts are morally bankrupt.  
Psa 94:12 How blessed is the one whom you instruct, O Lord,the one whom you teach from your law,  
Psa 94:13 in order to protect him from times of trouble, until the wicked are destroyed.  
Psa 94:14 Certainly the Lord does not forsake his people;he does not abandon the nation that belongs to him. 
Psa 94:15 For justice will prevail, and all the morally upright will be vindicated.  
Psa 94:16 Who will rise up to defend me against the wicked?Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?  
Psa 94:17 If the Lord had not helped me,I would soon have dwelt in the silence of death.  
Psa 94:18 If I say, “My foot is slipping,”your loyal love, O Lord, supports me. 
Psa 94:19 When worries threaten to overwhelm me, your soothing touch makes me happy.  
Psa 94:20 Cruel rulers are not your allies,those who make oppressive laws.  
Psa 94:21 They conspire against the blameless, and condemn to death the innocent. 
Psa 94:22 But the Lord will protect me, and my God will shelter me. 
Psa 94:23 He will pay them back for their sin. He will destroy them because of their evil;the Lord our God will destroy them.  
Psa 95:1 Come! Let’s sing for joy to the Lord!Let’s shout out praises to our protector who delivers us! 
Psa 95:2 Let’s enter his presence with thanksgiving!Let’s shout out to him in celebration!  
Psa 95:3 For the Lord is a great God,a great king who is superior to all gods.  
Psa 95:4 The depths of the earth are in his hand, and the mountain peaks belong to him. 
Psa 95:5 The sea is his, for he made it.His hands formed the dry land. 
Psa 95:6 Come! Let’s bow down and worship! Let’s kneel before the Lord, our Creator! 
Psa 95:7 For he is our God;we are the people of his pasture,the sheep he owns. Today, if only you would obey him! 
Psa 95:8 He says, “Do not be stubborn like they were at Meribah, like they were that day at Massah in the wilderness,  
Psa 95:9 where your ancestors challenged my authority, and tried my patience, even though they had seen my work.  
Psa 95:10 For forty years I was continually disgusted with that generation,and I said, ‘These people desire to go astray; they do not obey my commands.’  
Psa 95:11 So I made a vow in my anger,‘They will never enter into the resting place I had set aside for them.’” 
Psa 96:1 Sing to the Lord a new song! Sing to the Lord, all the earth!  
Psa 96:2 Sing to the Lord! Praise his name!Announce every day how he delivers!  
Psa 96:3 Tell the nations about his splendor!Tell all the nations about his amazing deeds! 
Psa 96:4 For the Lord is great and certainly worthy of praise;he is more awesome than all gods.  
Psa 96:5 For all the gods of the nations are worthless, but the Lord made the sky.  
Psa 96:6 Majestic splendor emanates from him; his sanctuary is firmly established and beautiful.  
Psa 96:7 Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the nations,ascribe to the Lord splendor and strength!  
Psa 96:8 Ascribe to the Lord the splendor he deserves! Bring an offering and enter his courts!  
Psa 96:9 Worship the Lord in holy attire! Tremble before him, all the earth!  
Psa 96:10 Say among the nations, “The Lord reigns!The world is established, it cannot be moved.He judges the nations fairly.”  
Psa 96:11 Let the sky rejoice, and the earth be happy!Let the sea and everything in it shout! 
Psa 96:12 Let the fields and everything in them celebrate!Then let the trees of the forest shout with joy 
Psa 96:13 before the Lord, for he comes!For he comes to judge the earth!He judges the world fairly, and the nations in accordance with his justice.  
Psa 97:1 The Lord reigns!Let the earth be happy!Let the many coastlands rejoice!  
Psa 97:2 Dark clouds surround him;equity and justice are the foundation of his throne.  
Psa 97:3 Fire goes before him;on every side it burns up his enemies.  
Psa 97:4 His lightning bolts light up the world;the earth sees and trembles.  
Psa 97:5 The mountains melt like wax before the Lord,before the Lord of the whole earth.  
Psa 97:6 The sky declares his justice,and all the nations see his splendor.  
Psa 97:7 All who worship idols are ashamed,those who boast about worthless idols.All the gods bow down before him. 
Psa 97:8 Zion hears and rejoices,the towns of Judah are happy,because of your judgments, O Lord.  
Psa 97:9 For you, O Lord, are the Most High over the whole earth;you are elevated high above all gods.  
Psa 97:10 You who love the Lord, hate evil!He protects the lives of his faithful followers;he delivers them from the power of the wicked.  
Psa 97:11 The godly bask in the light;the morally upright experience joy.  
Psa 97:12 You godly ones, rejoice in the Lord!Give thanks to his holy name.  
Psa 98:1 A psalm. Sing to the Lord a new song, for he performs amazing deeds!His right hand and his mighty armaccomplish deliverance.  
Psa 98:2 The Lord demonstrates his power to deliver; in the sight of the nations he reveals his justice.  
Psa 98:3 He remains loyal and faithful to the family of Israel. All the ends of the earth see our God deliver us. 
Psa 98:4 Shout out praises to the Lord, all the earth!Break out in a joyful shout and sing!  
Psa 98:5 Sing to the Lord accompanied by a harp,accompanied by a harp and the sound of music!  
Psa 98:6 With trumpets and the blaring of the ram’s horn,shout out praises before the king, the Lord!  
Psa 98:7 Let the sea and everything in it shout,along with the world and those who live in it! 
Psa 98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands!Let the mountains sing in unison  
Psa 98:9 before the Lord!For he comes to judge the earth!He judges the world fairly, and the nations in a just manner.  
Psa 99:1 The Lord reigns!The nations tremble. He sits enthroned above the cherubim; the earth shakes. 
Psa 99:2 The Lord is elevated in Zion;he is exalted over all the nations.  
Psa 99:3 Let them praise your great and awesome name!He is holy!  
Psa 99:4 The king is strong;he loves justice. You ensure that legal decisions will be made fairly; you promote justice and equity in Jacob.  
Psa 99:5 Praise the Lord our God!Worship before his footstool!He is holy!  
Psa 99:6 Moses and Aaron were among his priests;Samuel was one of those who prayed to him. They prayed to the Lord and he answered them. 
Psa 99:7 He spoke to them from a pillar of cloud; they obeyed his regulations and the ordinance he gave them.  
Psa 99:8 O Lord our God, you answered them.They found you to be a forgiving God,but also one who punished their sinful deeds.  
Psa 99:9 Praise the Lord our God!Worship on his holy hill,for the Lord our God is holy!  
Psa 100:1 A thanksgiving psalm. Shout out praises to the Lord, all the earth!  
Psa 100:2 Worship the Lord with joy!Enter his presence with joyful singing!  
Psa 100:3 Acknowledge that the Lord is God!He made us and we belong to him; we are his people, the sheep of his pasture.  
Psa 100:4 Enter his gates with thanksgiving,and his courts with praise!Give him thanks!Praise his name!  
Psa 100:5 For the Lord is good.His loyal love endures, and he is faithful through all generations.  
Psa 101:1 A psalm of David. I will sing about loyalty and justice!To you, O Lord, I will sing praises!  
Psa 101:2 I will walkin the way of integrity.When will you come to me?I will conduct my business with integrity in the midst of my palace.  
Psa 101:3 I will not even consider doing what is dishonest. I hate doing evil; I will have no part of it. 
Psa 101:4 I will have nothing to do with a perverse person; I will not permit evil.  
Psa 101:5 I will destroy anyone who slanders his neighbor in secret.I will not tolerate anyone who has a haughty demeanor and an arrogant attitude.  
Psa 101:6 I will favor the honest people of the land, and allow them to live with me. Those who walk in the way of integrity will attend me.  
Psa 101:7 Deceitful people will not live in my palace. Liars will not be welcome in my presence.  
Psa 101:8 Each morning I will destroy all the wicked people in the land,and remove all evildoers from the city of the Lord.  
Psa 102:1 The prayer of an oppressed man, as he grows faint and pours out his lament before the Lord. O Lord, hear my prayer!Pay attention to my cry for help!  
Psa 102:2 Do not ignore me in my time of trouble! Listen to me! When I call out to you, quickly answer me! 
Psa 102:3 For my days go up in smoke, and my bones are charred like a fireplace.  
Psa 102:4 My heart is parched and withered like grass,for I am unable to eat food.  
Psa 102:5 Because of the anxiety that makes me groan,my bones protrude from my skin.  
Psa 102:6 I am like an owl in the wilderness;I am like a screech owl among the ruins.  
Psa 102:7 I stay awake; I am like a solitary bird on a roof.  
Psa 102:8 All day long my enemies taunt me;those who mock me use my name in their curses.  
Psa 102:9 For I eat ashes as if they were bread, and mix my drink with my tears,  
Psa 102:10 because of your anger and raging fury.Indeed, you pick me up and throw me away. 
Psa 102:11 My days are coming to an end, and I am withered like grass.  
Psa 102:12 But you, O Lord, rule forever, and your reputation endures.  
Psa 102:13 You will rise up and have compassion on Zion. For it is time to have mercy on her,for the appointed time has come.  
Psa 102:14 Indeed, your servants take delight in her stones,and feel compassion for the dust of her ruins. 
Psa 102:15 The nations will respect the reputation of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth will respect his splendor,  
Psa 102:16 when the Lord rebuilds Zion,and reveals his splendor,  
Psa 102:17 when he responds to the prayer of the destitute, and does not reject their request.  
Psa 102:18 The account of his intervention will be recorded for future generations;people yet to be born will praise the Lord.  
Psa 102:19 For he will look down from his sanctuary above; from heaven the Lord will look toward earth,  
Psa 102:20 in order to hear the painful cries of the prisoners,and to set free those condemned to die,  
Psa 102:21 so they may proclaim the name of the Lord in Zion,and praise him in Jerusalem,  
Psa 102:22 when the nations gather together,and the kingdoms pay tribute to the Lord.  
Psa 102:23 He has taken away my strength in the middle of life; he has cut short my days.  
Psa 102:24 I say, “O my God, please do not take me away in the middle of my life! You endure through all generations. 
Psa 102:25 In earlier times you established the earth;the skies are your handiwork.  
Psa 102:26 They will perish,but you will endure. They will wear out like a garment;like clothes you will remove them and they will disappear.  
Psa 102:27 But you remain; your years do not come to an end. 
Psa 102:28 The children of your servants will settle down here,and their descendants will live securely in your presence.”  
Psa 103:1 By David. Praise the Lord, O my soul!With all that is within me, praise his holy name!  
Psa 103:2 Praise the Lord, O my soul!Do not forget all his kind deeds!  
Psa 103:3 He is the one who forgives all your sins,who heals all your diseases,  
Psa 103:4 who delivers your life from the Pit, who crowns you with his loyal love and compassion,  
Psa 103:5 who satisfies your life with good things, so your youth is renewed like an eagle’s. 
Psa 103:6 The Lord does what is fair,and executes justice for all the oppressed.  
Psa 103:7 The Lord revealed his faithful acts to Moses,his deeds to the Israelites.  
Psa 103:8 The Lord is compassionate and merciful;he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.  
Psa 103:9 He does not always accuse,and does not stay angry.  
Psa 103:10 He does not deal with us as our sins deserve; he does not repay us as our misdeeds deserve. 
Psa 103:11 For as the skies are high above the earth,so his loyal love towers over his faithful followers.  
Psa 103:12 As far as the eastern horizon is from the west, so he removes the guilt of our rebellious actions from us.  
Psa 103:13 As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on his faithful followers.  
Psa 103:14 For he knows what we are made of; he realizes we are made of clay. 
Psa 103:15 A person’s life is like grass. Like a flower in the field it flourishes,  
Psa 103:16 but when the hot wind blows by, it disappears,and one can no longer even spot the place where it once grew. 
Psa 103:17 But the Lord continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers, and is faithful to their descendants,  
Psa 103:18 to those who keep his covenant,who are careful to obey his commands.  
Psa 103:19 The Lord has established his throne in heaven;his kingdom extends over everything.  
Psa 103:20 Praise the Lord, you angels of his,you powerful warriors who carry out his decreesand obey his orders!  
Psa 103:21 Praise the Lord, all you warriors of his, you servants of his who carry out his desires!  
Psa 103:22 Praise the Lord, all that he has made, in all the regions of his kingdom!Praise the Lord, O my soul!  
Psa 104:1 Praise the Lord, O my soul!O Lord my God, you are magnificent. You are robed in splendor and majesty.  
Psa 104:2 He covers himself with light as if it were a garment.He stretches out the skies like a tent curtain,  
Psa 104:3 and lays the beams of the upper rooms of his palace on the rain clouds. He makes the clouds his chariot,and travels along on the wings of the wind.  
Psa 104:4 He makes the winds his messengers,and the flaming fire his attendant.  
Psa 104:5 He established the earth on its foundations;it will never be moved.  
Psa 104:6 The watery deep covered it like a garment;the waters reached above the mountains.  
Psa 104:7 Your shout made the waters retreat;at the sound of your thunderous voice they hurried off – 
Psa 104:8 as the mountains rose up,and the valleys went down – to the place you appointed for them.  
Psa 104:9 You set up a boundary for them that they could not cross,so that they would not cover the earth again.  
Psa 104:10 He turns springs into streams; they flow between the mountains.  
Psa 104:11 They provide water for all the animals in the field;the wild donkeys quench their thirst.  
Psa 104:12 The birds of the sky live beside them;they chirp among the bushes.  
Psa 104:13 He waters the mountains from the upper rooms of his palace; the earth is full of the fruit you cause to grow. 
Psa 104:14 He provides grass for the cattle,and crops for people to cultivate, so they can produce food from the ground,  
Psa 104:15 as well as wine that makes people feel so good, and so they can have oil to make their faces shine, as well as food that sustains people’s lives.  
Psa 104:16 The trees of the Lord receive all the rain they need, the cedars of Lebanon which he planted,  
Psa 104:17 where the birds make nests,near the evergreens in which the herons live. 
Psa 104:18 The wild goats live in the high mountains; the rock badgers find safety in the cliffs.  
Psa 104:19 He made the moon to mark the months, and the sun sets according to a regular schedule.  
Psa 104:20 You make it dark and night comes, during which all the beasts of the forest prowl around. 
Psa 104:21 The lions roar for prey,seeking their food from God.  
Psa 104:22 When the sun rises, they withdrawand sleep in their dens.  
Psa 104:23 Men then go out to do their work,and labor away until evening.  
Psa 104:24 How many living things you have made, O Lord! You have exhibited great skill in making all of them; the earth is full of the living things you have made.  
Psa 104:25 Over here is the deep, wide sea, which teems with innumerable swimming creatures, living things both small and large.  
Psa 104:26 The ships travel there,and over here swims the whale you made to play in it. 
Psa 104:27 All of your creatures wait for youto provide them with food on a regular basis.  
Psa 104:28 You give food to them and they receive it;you open your hand and they are filled with food.  
Psa 104:29 When you ignore them, they panic. When you take away their life’s breath, they dieand return to dust.  
Psa 104:30 When you send your life-giving breath, they are created,and you replenish the surface of the ground.  
Psa 104:31 May the splendor of the Lord endure! May the Lord find pleasure in the living things he has made! 
Psa 104:32 He looks down on the earth and it shakes;he touches the mountains and they start to smolder.  
Psa 104:33 I will sing to the Lord as long as I live;I will sing praise to my God as long as I exist!  
Psa 104:34 May my thoughts be pleasing to him!I will rejoice in the Lord.  
Psa 104:35 May sinners disappear from the earth,and the wicked vanish!Praise the Lord, O my soul!Praise the Lord!  
Psa 105:1  Give thanks to the Lord!Call on his name!Make known his accomplishments among the nations!  
Psa 105:2 Sing to him!Make music to him!Tell about all his miraculous deeds! 
Psa 105:3 Boast about his holy name!Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice!  
Psa 105:4 Seek the Lord and the strength he gives!Seek his presence continually!  
Psa 105:5 Recall the miraculous deeds he performed,his mighty acts and the judgments he decreed,  
Psa 105:6 O children of Abraham, God’s servant,you descendants of Jacob, God’s chosen ones!  
Psa 105:7 He is the Lord our God;he carries out judgment throughout the earth.  
Psa 105:8 He always remembers his covenantal decree,the promise he made to a thousand generations – 
Psa 105:9 the promise he made to Abraham,the promise he made by oath to Isaac!  
Psa 105:10 He gave it to Jacob as a decree,to Israel as a lasting promise,  
Psa 105:11 saying,  “To you I will give the land of Canaanas the portion of your inheritance.”  
Psa 105:12 When they were few in number,just a very few, and resident foreigners within it, 
Psa 105:13 they wandered from nation to nation,and from one kingdom to another.  
Psa 105:14 He let no one oppress them;he disciplined kings for their sake,  
Psa 105:15 saying, “Don’t touch my chosen ones!Don’t harm my prophets!”  
Psa 105:16 He called down a famine upon the earth;he cut off all the food supply.  
Psa 105:17 He sent a man ahead of them – Joseph was sold as a servant.  
Psa 105:18 The shackles hurt his feet; his neck was placed in an iron collar,  
Psa 105:19 until the time when his prediction came true.The Lord’s word proved him right. 
Psa 105:20 The king authorized his release; the ruler of nations set him free.  
Psa 105:21 He put him in charge of his palace, and made him manager of all his property,  
Psa 105:22 giving him authority to imprison his officials and to teach his advisers.  
Psa 105:23 Israel moved to Egypt;Jacob lived for a time in the land of Ham.  
Psa 105:24 The Lord made his people very fruitful,and made them more numerous than their enemies.  
Psa 105:25 He caused them to hate his people,and to mistreat his servants.  
Psa 105:26 He sent his servant Moses, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.  
Psa 105:27 They executed his miraculous signs among them, and his amazing deeds in the land of Ham.  
Psa 105:28 He made it dark; they did not disobey his orders.  
Psa 105:29 He turned their water into blood,and killed their fish.  
Psa 105:30 Their land was overrun by frogs,which even got into the rooms of their kings.  
Psa 105:31 He ordered flies to come; gnats invaded their whole territory.  
Psa 105:32 He sent hail along with the rain; there was lightning in their land.  
Psa 105:33 He destroyed their vines and fig trees,and broke the trees throughout their territory.  
Psa 105:34 He ordered locusts to come, innumerable grasshoppers.  
Psa 105:35 They ate all the vegetation in their land,and devoured the crops of their fields.  
Psa 105:36 He struck down all the firstborn in their land,the firstfruits of their reproductive power.  
Psa 105:37 He brought his people out enriched with silver and gold;none of his tribes stumbled.  
Psa 105:38 Egypt was happy when they left,for they were afraid of them. 
Psa 105:39 He spread out a cloud for a cover, and provided a fire to light up the night.  
Psa 105:40 They asked for food, and he sent quails;he satisfied them with food from the sky.  
Psa 105:41 He opened up a rock and water flowed out;a river ran through dry regions. 
Psa 105:42 Yes, he remembered the sacred promise he made to Abraham his servant.  
Psa 105:43 When he led his people out, they rejoiced;his chosen ones shouted with joy.  
Psa 105:44 He handed the territory of nations over to them,and they took possession of what other peoples had produced,  
Psa 105:45 so that they might keep his commandsand obey his laws.Praise the Lord!  
Psa 106:1 Praise the Lord!Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good,and his loyal love endures!  
Psa 106:2 Who can adequately recount the Lord’s mighty acts,or relate all his praiseworthy deeds? 
Psa 106:3 How blessed are those who promote justice,and do what is right all the time!  
Psa 106:4 Remember me, O Lord, when you show favor to your people!Pay attention to me, when you deliver,  
Psa 106:5 so I may see the prosperity of your chosen ones,rejoice along with your nation, and boast along with the people who belong to you.  
Psa 106:6 We have sinned like our ancestors; we have done wrong, we have done evil.  
Psa 106:7 Our ancestors in Egypt failed to appreciate your miraculous deeds,they failed to remember your many acts of loyal love,and they rebelled at the sea, by the Red Sea.  
Psa 106:8 Yet he delivered them for the sake of his reputation, that he might reveal his power.  
Psa 106:9 He shouted at the Red Sea and it dried up;he led them through the deep water as if it were a desert.  
Psa 106:10 He delivered them from the power of the one who hated them,and rescued them from the power of the enemy.  
Psa 106:11 The water covered their enemies;not even one of them survived.  
Psa 106:12 They believed his promises; they sang praises to him. 
Psa 106:13 They quickly forgot what he had done; they did not wait for his instructions.  
Psa 106:14 In the wilderness they had an insatiable craving for meat; they challenged God in the wastelands. 
Psa 106:15 He granted their request,then struck them with a disease.  
Psa 106:16 In the camp they resented Moses,and Aaron, the Lord’s holy priest.  
Psa 106:17 The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan;it engulfed the group led by Abiram.  
Psa 106:18 Fire burned their group;the flames scorched the wicked.  
Psa 106:19 They made an image of a calf at Horeb,and worshiped a metal idol.  
Psa 106:20 They traded their majestic God for the image of an ox that eats grass.  
Psa 106:21 They rejected the God who delivered them,the one who performed great deeds in Egypt,  
Psa 106:22 amazing feats in the land of Ham,mighty acts by the Red Sea. 
Psa 106:23 He threatened to destroy them,but Moses, his chosen one, interceded with him and turned back his destructive anger.  
Psa 106:24 They rejected the fruitful land; they did not believe his promise.  
Psa 106:25 They grumbled in their tents; they did not obey the Lord.  
Psa 106:26 So he made a solemn vow that he would make them die in the wilderness, 
Psa 106:27 make their descendants die among the nations,and scatter them among foreign lands.  
Psa 106:28 They worshiped Baal of Peor,and ate sacrifices offered to the dead.  
Psa 106:29 They made the Lord angry by their actions,and a plague broke out among them. 
Psa 106:30 Phinehas took a stand and intervened, and the plague subsided.  
Psa 106:31 This was credited to him as a righteous act for all generations to come.  
Psa 106:32 They made him angry by the waters of Meribah,and Moses suffered because of them, 
Psa 106:33 for they aroused his temper, and he spoke rashly.  
Psa 106:34 They did not destroy the nations, as the Lord had commanded them to do. 
Psa 106:35 They mixed in with the nationsand learned their ways.  
Psa 106:36 They worshiped their idols,which became a snare to them.  
Psa 106:37 They sacrificed their sons and daughters to demons.  
Psa 106:38 They shed innocent blood – the blood of their sons and daughters,whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan.The land was polluted by bloodshed.  
Psa 106:39 They were defiled by their deeds,and unfaithful in their actions.  
Psa 106:40 So the Lord was angry with his people and despised the people who belong to him. 
Psa 106:41 He handed them over to the nations,and those who hated them ruled over them. 
Psa 106:42 Their enemies oppressed them;they were subject to their authority.  
Psa 106:43 Many times he delivered them,but they had a rebellious attitude, and degraded themselves by their sin.  
Psa 106:44 Yet he took notice of their distress,when he heard their cry for help. 
Psa 106:45 He remembered his covenant with them,and relented because of his great loyal love.  
Psa 106:46 He caused all their conquerors to have pity on them. 
Psa 106:47 Deliver us, O Lord, our God!Gather us from among the nations!Then we will give thanks to your holy name,and boast about your praiseworthy deeds. 
Psa 106:48 The Lord God of Israel deserves praise, in the future and forevermore. Let all the people say, “We agree! Praise the Lord!”  
Psa 107:1 Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good,and his loyal love endures!  
Psa 107:2 Let those delivered by the Lord speak out, those whom he delivered from the power of the enemy,  
Psa 107:3 and gathered from foreign lands, from east and west,from north and south.  
Psa 107:4 They wandered through the wilderness, in a wasteland; they found no road to a city in which to live.  
Psa 107:5 They were hungry and thirsty;they fainted from exhaustion.  
Psa 107:6 They cried out to the Lord in their distress;he delivered them from their troubles.  
Psa 107:7 He led them on a level road, that they might find a city in which to live.  
Psa 107:8 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,and for the amazing things he has done for people!  
Psa 107:9 For he has satisfied those who thirst, and those who hunger he has filled with food.  
Psa 107:10 They sat in utter darkness, bound in painful iron chains, 
Psa 107:11 because they had rebelled against God’s commands, and rejected the instructions of the Most High. 
Psa 107:12 So he used suffering to humble them; they stumbled and no one helped them up. 
Psa 107:13 They cried out to the Lord in their distress;he delivered them from their troubles.  
Psa 107:14 He brought them out of the utter darkness, and tore off their shackles.  
Psa 107:15 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,and for the amazing things he has done for people!  
Psa 107:16 For he shattered the bronze gates,and hacked through the iron bars.  
Psa 107:17 They acted like fools in their rebellious ways, and suffered because of their sins.  
Psa 107:18 They lost their appetite for all food, and they drew near the gates of death.  
Psa 107:19 They cried out to the Lord in their distress;he delivered them from their troubles.  
Psa 107:20 He sent them an assuring word and healed them;he rescued them from the pits where they were trapped. 
Psa 107:21 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,and for the amazing things he has done for people!  
Psa 107:22 Let them present thank offerings,and loudly proclaim what he has done!  
Psa 107:23  Some traveled on the sea in ships,and carried cargo over the vast waters.  
Psa 107:24 They witnessed the acts of the Lord,his amazing feats on the deep water. 
Psa 107:25 He gave the order for a windstorm, and it stirred up the waves of the sea. 
Psa 107:26 They reached up to the sky,then dropped into the depths.The sailors’ strength left them because the danger was so great. 
Psa 107:27 They swayed and staggered like a drunk,and all their skill proved ineffective.  
Psa 107:28 They cried out to the Lord in their distress;he delivered them from their troubles.  
Psa 107:29 He calmed the storm, and the waves grew silent.  
Psa 107:30 The sailors rejoiced because the waves grew quiet,and he led them to the harbor they desired.  
Psa 107:31 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love,and for the amazing things he has done for people!  
Psa 107:32 Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people!Let them praise him in the place where the leaders preside!  
Psa 107:33 He turned streams into a desert,springs of water into arid land,  
Psa 107:34 and a fruitful land into a barren place, because of the sin of its inhabitants.  
Psa 107:35 As for his people, he turned a desert into a pool of water,and a dry land into springs of water.  
Psa 107:36 He allowed the hungry to settle there,and they established a city in which to live.  
Psa 107:37 They cultivated fields,and planted vineyards,which yielded a harvest of fruit.  
Psa 107:38 He blessed them so that they became very numerous.He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number. 
Psa 107:39 As for their enemies, they decreased in number and were beaten down,because of painful distress and suffering.  
Psa 107:40 He would pour contempt upon princes,and he made them wander in a wasteland with no road.  
Psa 107:41 Yet he protected the needy from oppression,and cared for his families like a flock of sheep. 
Psa 107:42 When the godly see this, they rejoice,and every sinner shuts his mouth.  
Psa 107:43 Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things!Let them consider the Lord’s acts of loyal love!  
Psa 108:1 A song, a psalm of David. I am determined, O God!I will sing and praise you with my whole heart.  
Psa 108:2 Awake,  O stringed instrument and harp!I will wake up at dawn!  
Psa 108:3 I will give you thanks before the nations, O Lord!I will sing praises to you before foreigners!  
Psa 108:4 For your loyal love extends beyond the sky, and your faithfulness reaches the clouds.  
Psa 108:5 Rise up above the sky, O God!May your splendor cover the whole earth!  
Psa 108:6 Deliver by your power and answer me,so that the ones you love may be safe.  
Psa 108:7 God has spoken in his sanctuary: “I will triumph! I will parcel out Shechem,the Valley of Succoth I will measure off. 
Psa 108:8 Gilead belongs to me,as does Manasseh! Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my royal scepter.  
Psa 108:9 Moab is my washbasin. I will make Edom serve me. I will shout in triumph over Philistia.”  
Psa 108:10 Who will lead me into the fortified city?Who will bring me to Edom?  
Psa 108:11 Have you not rejected us, O God?O God, you do not go into battle with our armies.  
Psa 108:12 Give us help against the enemy,for any help men might offer is futile.  
Psa 108:13 By God’s power we will conquer; he will trample down our enemies.  
Psa 109:1 For the music director, a psalm of David. O God whom I praise, do not ignore me! 
Psa 109:2 For they say cruel and deceptive things to me;they lie to me.  
Psa 109:3 They surround me and say hateful things; they attack me for no reason.  
Psa 109:4 They repay my love with accusations, but I continue to pray.  
Psa 109:5 They repay me evil for good, and hate for love.  
Psa 109:6  Appoint an evil man to testify against him! May an accuser stand at his right side!  
Psa 109:7 When he is judged, he will be found guilty! Then his prayer will be regarded as sinful. 
Psa 109:8 May his days be few! May another take his job!  
Psa 109:9 May his children be fatherless,and his wife a widow!  
Psa 109:10 May his children roam around begging,asking for handouts as they leave their ruined home! 
Psa 109:11 May the creditor seize all he owns!May strangers loot his property!  
Psa 109:12 May no one show him kindness! May no one have compassion on his fatherless children! 
Psa 109:13 May his descendants be cut off! May the memory of them be wiped out by the time the next generation arrives!  
Psa 109:14 May his ancestors’ sins be remembered by the Lord!May his mother’s sin not be forgotten!  
Psa 109:15 May the Lord be constantly aware of them, and cut off the memory of his children from the earth!  
Psa 109:16 For he never bothered to show kindness; he harassed the oppressed and needy,and killed the disheartened.  
Psa 109:17 He loved to curse others, so those curses have come upon him. He had no desire to bless anyone, so he has experienced no blessings.  
Psa 109:18 He made cursing a way of life, so curses poured into his stomach like waterand seeped into his bones like oil.  
Psa 109:19 May a curse attach itself to him, like a garment one puts on, or a belt one wears continually!  
Psa 109:20 May the Lord repay my accusers in this way, those who say evil things about me!  
Psa 109:21 O sovereign Lord,intervene on my behalf for the sake of your reputation! Because your loyal love is good, deliver me! 
Psa 109:22 For I am oppressed and needy,and my heart beats violently within me. 
Psa 109:23 I am fading away like a shadow at the end of the day; I am shaken off like a locust.  
Psa 109:24 I am so starved my knees shake; I have turned into skin and bones.  
Psa 109:25 I am disdained by them. When they see me, they shake their heads.  
Psa 109:26 Help me, O Lord my God!Because you are faithful to me, deliver me! 
Psa 109:27 Then they will realize this is your work, and that you, Lord, have accomplished it. 
Psa 109:28 They curse, but you will bless. When they attack, they will be humiliated, but your servant will rejoice.  
Psa 109:29 My accusers will be covered with shame,and draped in humiliation as if it were a robe.  
Psa 109:30 I will thank the Lord profusely, in the middle of a crowd I will praise him, 
Psa 109:31 because he stands at the right hand of the needy,to deliver him from those who threaten his life.  
Psa 110:1 A psalm of David. Here is the Lord’s proclamation to my lord: “Sit down at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool!”  
Psa 110:2 The Lord extends your dominion from Zion.Rule in the midst of your enemies!  
Psa 110:3 Your people willingly follow you when you go into battle. On the holy hills at sunrise the dew of your youth belongs to you. 
Psa 110:4 The Lord makes this promise on oath and will not revoke it: “You are an eternal priest after the pattern of Melchizedek.”  
Psa 110:5 O Lord, at your right handhe strikes down kings in the day he unleashes his anger.  
Psa 110:6 He executes judgment against the nations;he fills the valleys with corpses; he shatters their heads over the vast battlefield.  
Psa 110:7 From the stream along the road he drinks;then he lifts up his head.  
Psa 111:1 Praise the Lord!I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart,in the assembly of the godly and the congregation.  
Psa 111:2 The Lord’s deeds are great,eagerly awaited by all who desire them. 
Psa 111:3 His work is majestic and glorious, and his faithfulness endures forever.  
Psa 111:4 He does amazing things that will be remembered; the Lord is merciful and compassionate.  
Psa 111:5 He gives food to his faithful followers; he always remembers his covenant.  
Psa 111:6 He announced that he would do mighty deeds for his people,giving them a land that belonged to other nations.  
Psa 111:7 His acts are characterized by faithfulness and justice;all his precepts are reliable.  
Psa 111:8 They are forever firm,and should be faithfully and properly carried out. 
Psa 111:9 He delivered his people; he ordained that his covenant be observed forever. His name is holy and awesome.  
Psa 111:10 To obey the Lord is the fundamental principle for wise living; all who carry out his precepts acquire good moral insight. He will receive praise forever.  
Psa 112:1 Praise the Lord!How blessed is the one who obeys the Lord,who takes great delight in keeping his commands.  
Psa 112:2 His descendants will be powerful on the earth;the godly will be blessed.  
Psa 112:3 His house contains wealth and riches;his integrity endures.  
Psa 112:4 In the darkness a light shines for the godly,for each one who is merciful, compassionate, and just.  
Psa 112:5 It goes well for the one who generously lends money,and conducts his business honestly. 
Psa 112:6 For he will never be shaken;others will always remember one who is just.  
Psa 112:7 He does not fear bad news.He is confident; he trusts in the Lord.  
Psa 112:8 His resolve is firm; he will not succumb to fearbefore he looks in triumph on his enemies.  
Psa 112:9 He generously gives to the needy;his integrity endures. He will be vindicated and honored.  
Psa 112:10 When the wicked see this, they will worry;they will grind their teeth in frustration and melt away;the desire of the wicked will perish.  
Psa 113:1 Praise the Lord!Praise, you servants of the Lord,praise the name of the Lord!  
Psa 113:2 May the Lord’s name be praisednow and forevermore!  
Psa 113:3 From east to west the Lord’s name is deserving of praise.  
Psa 113:4 The Lord is exalted over all the nations;his splendor reaches beyond the sky.  
Psa 113:5 Who can compare to the Lord our God,who sits on a high throne?  
Psa 113:6 He bends down to look at the sky and the earth.  
Psa 113:7 He raises the poor from the dirt,and lifts up the needy from the garbage pile, 
Psa 113:8 that he might seat him with princes,with the princes of his people.  
Psa 113:9 He makes the barren woman of the family a happy mother of children. Praise the Lord!  
Psa 114:1 When Israel left Egypt,when the family of Jacob left a foreign nation behind,  
Psa 114:2 Judah became his sanctuary,Israel his kingdom.  
Psa 114:3 The sea looked and fled; the Jordan River turned back.  
Psa 114:4 The mountains skipped like rams,the hills like lambs.  
Psa 114:5 Why do you flee, O sea?Why do you turn back, O Jordan River?  
Psa 114:6 Why do you skip like rams, O mountains,like lambs, O hills?  
Psa 114:7 Tremble,  O earth, before the Lord – before the God of Jacob,  
Psa 114:8 who turned a rock into a pool of water,a hard rock into springs of water!  
Psa 115:1 Not to us, O Lord, not to us!But to your name bring honor, for the sake of your loyal love and faithfulness.  
Psa 115:2 Why should the nations say,“Where is their God?”  
Psa 115:3 Our God is in heaven!He does whatever he pleases!  
Psa 115:4 Their idols are made of silver and gold – they are man-made. 
Psa 115:5 They have mouths, but cannot speak,eyes, but cannot see,  
Psa 115:6 ears,  but cannot hear,noses, but cannot smell,  
Psa 115:7 hands,  but cannot touch,feet, but cannot walk.They cannot even clear their throats.  
Psa 115:8 Those who make them will end up like them,as will everyone who trusts in them. 
Psa 115:9 O Israel, trust in the Lord!He is their deliverer and protector.  
Psa 115:10 O family of Aaron, trust in the Lord!He is their deliverer and protector.  
Psa 115:11 You loyal followers of the Lord, trust in the Lord!He is their deliverer and protector.  
Psa 115:12 The Lord takes notice of us, he will bless – he will bless the family of Israel,he will bless the family of Aaron.  
Psa 115:13 He will bless his loyal followers, both young and old.  
Psa 115:14 May he increase your numbers,yours and your children’s! 
Psa 115:15 May you be blessed by the Lord,the Creator of heaven and earth!  
Psa 115:16 The heavens belong to the Lord, but the earth he has given to mankind.  
Psa 115:17 The dead do not praise the Lord,nor do any of those who descend into the silence of death. 
Psa 115:18 But we will praise the Lordnow and forevermore.Praise the Lord!  
Psa 116:1 I love the Lordbecause he heard my plea for mercy, 
Psa 116:2 and listened to me. As long as I live, I will call to him when I need help. 
Psa 116:3 The ropes of death tightened around me, the snares of Sheol confronted me.I was confronted with trouble and sorrow.  
Psa 116:4 I called on the name of the Lord,“Please Lord, rescue my life!”  
Psa 116:5 The Lord is merciful and fair;our God is compassionate.  
Psa 116:6 The Lord protects the untrained; I was in serious trouble and he delivered me. 
Psa 116:7 Rest once more, my soul, for the Lord has vindicated you. 
Psa 116:8 Yes, Lord, you rescued my life from death, kept my eyes from tears and my feet from stumbling.  
Psa 116:9 I will serve the Lordin the land of the living.  
Psa 116:10 I had faith when I said,“I am severely oppressed.”  
Psa 116:11 I rashly declared, “All men are liars.”  
Psa 116:12 How can I repay the Lordfor all his acts of kindness to me? 
Psa 116:13 I will celebrate my deliverance, and call on the name of the Lord.  
Psa 116:14 I will fulfill my vows to the Lordbefore all his people.  
Psa 116:15 The Lord valuesthe lives of his faithful followers.  
Psa 116:16 Yes,  Lord! I am indeed your servant;I am your servant, the son of your female servant. You saved me from death. 
Psa 116:17 I will present a thank offering to you,and call on the name of the Lord.  
Psa 116:18 I will fulfill my vows to the Lordbefore all his people,  
Psa 116:19 in the courts of the Lord’s temple,in your midst, O Jerusalem.Praise the Lord!  
Psa 117:1 Praise the Lord, all you nations!Applaud him, all you foreigners!  
Psa 117:2 For his loyal love towers over us,and the Lord’s faithfulness endures.Praise the Lord!  
Psa 118:1 Give thanks to the Lord, for he is goodand his loyal love endures!  
Psa 118:2 Let Israel say,“Yes, his loyal love endures!”  
Psa 118:3 Let the family of Aaron say,“Yes, his loyal love endures!”  
Psa 118:4 Let the loyal followers of the Lord say,“Yes, his loyal love endures!”  
Psa 118:5 In my distress I cried out to the Lord.The Lord answered me and put me in a wide open place.  
Psa 118:6 The Lord is on my side, I am not afraid!What can people do to me? 
Psa 118:7 The Lord is on my side as my helper. I look in triumph on those who hate me. 
Psa 118:8 It is better to take shelter in the Lordthan to trust in people.  
Psa 118:9 It is better to take shelter in the Lordthan to trust in princes.  
Psa 118:10 All the nations surrounded me. Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away. 
Psa 118:11 They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me.Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away. 
Psa 118:12 They surrounded me like bees.But they disappeared as quickly as a fire among thorns. Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away. 
Psa 118:13  “You aggressively attacked me and tried to knock me down, but the Lord helped me. 
Psa 118:14 The Lord gives me strength and protects me; he has become my deliverer.”  
Psa 118:15 They celebrate deliverance in the tents of the godly. The Lord’s right hand conquers,  
Psa 118:16 the Lord’s right hand gives victory, the Lord’s right hand conquers.  
Psa 118:17 I will not die, but live,and I will proclaim what the Lord has done.  
Psa 118:18 The Lord severely punished me,but he did not hand me over to death.  
Psa 118:19 Open for me the gates of the just king’s temple! I will enter through them and give thanks to the Lord.  
Psa 118:20 This is the Lord’s gate – the godly enter through it. 
Psa 118:21 I will give you thanks, for you answered me,and have become my deliverer.  
Psa 118:22 The stone which the builders discarded has become the cornerstone.  
Psa 118:23 This is the Lord’s work.We consider it amazing!  
Psa 118:24 This is the day the Lord has brought about. We will be happy and rejoice in it. 
Psa 118:25 Please Lord, deliver!Please Lord, grant us success!  
Psa 118:26 May the one who comes in the name of the Lord be blessed!We will pronounce blessings on you in the Lord’s temple.  
Psa 118:27 The Lord is God and he has delivered us. Tie the offering with ropesto the horns of the altar!  
Psa 118:28 You are my God and I will give you thanks!You are my God and I will praise you! 
Psa 118:29 Give thanks to the Lord, for he is goodand his loyal love endures!  
Psa 119:1 א (Alef ) How blessed are those whose actions are blameless, who obey the law of the Lord. 
Psa 119:2 How blessed are those who observe his rules,and seek him with all their heart,  
Psa 119:3 who, moreover, do no wrong,but follow in his footsteps.  
Psa 119:4 You demand that your preceptsbe carefully kept. 
Psa 119:5 If only I were predisposed to keep your statutes!  
Psa 119:6 Then I would not be ashamed,if I were focused on all your commands.  
Psa 119:7 I will give you sincere thanks, when I learn your just regulations.  
Psa 119:8 I will keep your statutes.Do not completely abandon me! 
Psa 119:9 ב (Bet ) How can a young person maintain a pure life? By guarding it according to your instructions!  
Psa 119:10 With all my heart I seek you.Do not allow me to stray from your commands!  
Psa 119:11 In my heart I store up your words, so I might not sin against you. 
Psa 119:12 You deserve praise, O Lord!Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:13 With my lips I proclaimall the regulations you have revealed.  
Psa 119:14 I rejoice in the lifestyle prescribed by your rules as if they were riches of all kinds.  
Psa 119:15 I will meditate on your preceptsand focus on your behavior.  
Psa 119:16 I find delight in your statutes;I do not forget your instructions.  
Psa 119:17 ג (Gimel ) Be kind to your servant!Then I will live and keep your instructions.  
Psa 119:18 Open my eyes so I can truly see the marvelous things in your law!  
Psa 119:19 I am a resident foreigner in this land. Do not hide your commands from me! 
Psa 119:20 I desperately long to know your regulations at all times.  
Psa 119:21 You reprimand arrogant people.Those who stray from your commands are doomed.  
Psa 119:22 Spare me shame and humiliation,for I observe your rules.  
Psa 119:23 Though rulers plot and slander me, your servant meditates on your statutes.  
Psa 119:24 Yes,  I find delight in your rules;they give me guidance.  
Psa 119:25 ד (Dalet ) I collapse in the dirt. Revive me with your word!  
Psa 119:26 I told you about my ways and you answered me.Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:27 Help me to understand what your precepts mean! Then I can meditate on your marvelous teachings.  
Psa 119:28 I collapse from grief.Sustain me by your word!  
Psa 119:29 Remove me from the path of deceit! Graciously give me your law!  
Psa 119:30 I choose the path of faithfulness;I am committed to your regulations.  
Psa 119:31 I hold fast to your rules.O Lord, do not let me be ashamed!  
Psa 119:32 I run along the path of your commands,for you enable me to do so. 
Psa 119:33 ה (He ) Teach me, O Lord, the lifestyle prescribed by your statutes, so that I might observe it continually.  
Psa 119:34 Give me understanding so that I might observe your law,and keep it with all my heart.  
Psa 119:35 Guide me in the path of your commands,for I delight to walk in it. 
Psa 119:36 Give me a desire for your rules, rather than for wealth gained unjustly.  
Psa 119:37 Turn my eyes away from what is worthless! Revive me with your word! 
Psa 119:38 Confirm to your servant your promise, which you made to the one who honors you. 
Psa 119:39 Take away the insults that I dread! Indeed, your regulations are good.  
Psa 119:40 Look,  I long for your precepts.Revive me with your deliverance!  
Psa 119:41 ו (Vav ) May I experience your loyal love, O Lord,and your deliverance, as you promised.  
Psa 119:42 Then I will have a reply for the one who insults me, for I trust in your word.  
Psa 119:43 Do not completely deprive me of a truthful testimony, for I await your justice.  
Psa 119:44 Then I will keep your law continuallynow and for all time.  
Psa 119:45 I will be secure, for I seek your precepts.  
Psa 119:46 I will speak about your regulations before kingsand not be ashamed.  
Psa 119:47 I will find delight in your commands,which I love.  
Psa 119:48 I will lift my hands to your commands,which I love,and I will meditate on your statutes.  
Psa 119:49 ז (Zayin ) Remember your word to your servant,for you have given me hope.  
Psa 119:50 This is what comforts me in my trouble,for your promise revives me. 
Psa 119:51 Arrogant people do nothing but scoff at me. Yet I do not turn aside from your law.  
Psa 119:52 I remember your ancient regulations, O Lord, and console myself. 
Psa 119:53 Rage takes hold of me because of the wicked,those who reject your law.  
Psa 119:54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house where I live.  
Psa 119:55 I remember your name during the night, O Lord,and I will keep your law.  
Psa 119:56 This has been my practice,for I observe your precepts.  
Psa 119:57 ח (Khet ) The Lord is my source of security. I have determined to follow your instructions.  
Psa 119:58 I seek your favor with all my heart.Have mercy on me as you promised!  
Psa 119:59 I consider my actions and follow your rules.  
Psa 119:60 I keep your commandseagerly and without delay.  
Psa 119:61 The ropes of the wicked tighten around me,but I do not forget your law.  
Psa 119:62 In the middle of the night I arise to thank youfor your just regulations.  
Psa 119:63 I am a friend to all your loyal followers, and to those who keep your precepts.  
Psa 119:64 O Lord, your loyal love fills the earth.Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:65 ט (Tet ) You are good to your servant,O Lord, just as you promised. 
Psa 119:66 Teach me proper discernment and understanding!For I consider your commands to be reliable.  
Psa 119:67 Before I was afflicted I used to stray off, but now I keep your instructions.  
Psa 119:68 You are good and you do good.Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:69 Arrogant people smear my reputation with lies, but I observe your precepts with all my heart.  
Psa 119:70 Their hearts are calloused, but I find delight in your law.  
Psa 119:71 It was good for me to suffer,so that I might learn your statutes.  
Psa 119:72 The law you have revealed is more important to methan thousands of pieces of gold and silver.  
Psa 119:73 י (Yod ) Your hands made me and formed me. Give me understanding so that I might learn your commands.  
Psa 119:74 Your loyal followers will be glad when they see me, for I find hope in your word.  
Psa 119:75 I know, Lord, that your regulations are just.You disciplined me because of your faithful devotion to me. 
Psa 119:76 May your loyal love console me,as you promised your servant.  
Psa 119:77 May I experience your compassion, so I might live!For I find delight in your law.  
Psa 119:78 May the arrogant be humiliated, for they have slandered me! But I meditate on your precepts.  
Psa 119:79 May your loyal followers turn to me,those who know your rules.  
Psa 119:80 May I be fully committed to your statutes, so that I might not be ashamed.  
Psa 119:81 כ (Kaf ) I desperately long for your deliverance.I find hope in your word.  
Psa 119:82 My eyes grow tired as I wait for your promise to be fulfilled. I say, “When will you comfort me?” 
Psa 119:83 For I am like a wineskin dried up in smoke. I do not forget your statutes.  
Psa 119:84 How long must your servant endure this? When will you judge those who pursue me? 
Psa 119:85 The arrogant dig pits to trap me, which violates your law.  
Psa 119:86 All your commands are reliable.I am pursued without reason. Help me! 
Psa 119:87 They have almost destroyed me here on the earth,but I do not reject your precepts.  
Psa 119:88 Revive me with your loyal love,that I might keep the rules you have revealed.  
Psa 119:89 ל (Lamed ) O Lord, your instructions endure;they stand secure in heaven.  
Psa 119:90 You demonstrate your faithfulness to all generations. You established the earth and it stood firm. 
Psa 119:91 Today they stand firm by your decrees,for all things are your servants.  
Psa 119:92 If I had not found encouragement in your law, I would have died in my sorrow.  
Psa 119:93 I will never forget your precepts,for by them you have revived me.  
Psa 119:94 I belong to you. Deliver me!For I seek your precepts.  
Psa 119:95 The wicked prepare to kill me, yet I concentrate on your rules.  
Psa 119:96 I realize that everything has its limits,but your commands are beyond full comprehension.  
Psa 119:97 מ (Mem ) O how I love your law!All day long I meditate on it. 
Psa 119:98 Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies,for I am always aware of them. 
Psa 119:99 I have more insight than all my teachers,for I meditate on your rules.  
Psa 119:100 I am more discerning than those older than I,for I observe your precepts.  
Psa 119:101 I stay away from every evil path,so that I might keep your instructions.  
Psa 119:102 I do not turn aside from your regulations,for you teach me. 
Psa 119:103 Your words are sweeterin my mouth than honey!  
Psa 119:104 Your precepts give me discernment.Therefore I hate all deceitful actions.  
Psa 119:105 נ (Nun ) Your word is a lamp to walk by,and a light to illumine my path.  
Psa 119:106 I have vowed and solemnly swornto keep your just regulations.  
Psa 119:107 I am suffering terribly.O Lord, revive me with your word!  
Psa 119:108 O Lord, please accept the freewill offerings of my praise! Teach me your regulations!  
Psa 119:109 My life is in continual danger, but I do not forget your law.  
Psa 119:110 The wicked lay a trap for me,but I do not wander from your precepts.  
Psa 119:111 I claim your rules as my permanent possession,for they give me joy.  
Psa 119:112 I am determined to obey your statutesat all times, to the very end.  
Psa 119:113 ס (Samek) I hate people with divided loyalties, but I love your law.  
Psa 119:114 You are my hiding place and my shield.I find hope in your word.  
Psa 119:115 Turn away from me, you evil men,so that I can observe the commands of my God.  
Psa 119:116 Sustain me as you promised, so that I will live. Do not disappoint me! 
Psa 119:117 Support me, so that I will be delivered.Then I will focus on your statutes continually.  
Psa 119:118 You despise all who stray from your statutes,for they are deceptive and unreliable.  
Psa 119:119 You remove all the wicked of the earth like slag. Therefore I love your rules.  
Psa 119:120 My body trembles because I fear you; I am afraid of your judgments.  
Psa 119:121 ע (Ayin ) I do what is fair and right. Do not abandon me to my oppressors!  
Psa 119:122 Guarantee the welfare of your servant! Do not let the arrogant oppress me! 
Psa 119:123 My eyes grow tired as I wait for your deliverance, for your reliable promise to be fulfilled.  
Psa 119:124 Show your servant your loyal love! Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:125 I am your servant. Give me insight,so that I can understand your rules.  
Psa 119:126 It is time for the Lord to act – they break your law!  
Psa 119:127 For this reason I love your commandsmore than gold, even purest gold.  
Psa 119:128 For this reason I carefully follow all your precepts. I hate all deceitful actions.  
Psa 119:129 פ (Pe ) Your rules are marvelous.Therefore I observe them. 
Psa 119:130 Your instructions are a doorway through which light shines. They give insight to the untrained.  
Psa 119:131 I open my mouth and pant,because I long for your commands.  
Psa 119:132 Turn toward me and extend mercy to me,as you typically do to your loyal followers.  
Psa 119:133 Direct my steps by your word! Do not let any sin dominate me! 
Psa 119:134 Deliver me from oppressive men,so that I can keep your precepts.  
Psa 119:135 Smile on your servant!Teach me your statutes!  
Psa 119:136 Tears stream down from my eyes, because people do not keep your law.  
Psa 119:137 צ (Tsade ) You are just, O Lord,and your judgments are fair.  
Psa 119:138 The rules you impose are just, and absolutely reliable.  
Psa 119:139 My zeal consumes me,for my enemies forget your instructions.  
Psa 119:140 Your word is absolutely pure,and your servant loves it! 
Psa 119:141 I am insignificant and despised,yet I do not forget your precepts.  
Psa 119:142 Your justice endures, and your law is reliable.  
Psa 119:143 Distress and hardship confront me,yet I find delight in your commands.  
Psa 119:144 Your rules remain just. Give me insight so that I can live.  
Psa 119:145 ק (Qof ) I cried out with all my heart, “Answer me, O Lord!I will observe your statutes.”  
Psa 119:146 I cried out to you, “Deliver me,so that I can keep your rules.”  
Psa 119:147 I am up before dawn crying for help.I find hope in your word.  
Psa 119:148 My eyes anticipate the nighttime hours,so that I can meditate on your word.  
Psa 119:149 Listen to me because of your loyal love!O Lord, revive me, as you typically do! 
Psa 119:150 Those who are eager to do wrong draw near;they are far from your law.  
Psa 119:151 You are near, O Lord,and all your commands are reliable.  
Psa 119:152 I learned long ago thatyou ordained your rules to last.  
Psa 119:153 ר (Resh ) See my pain and rescue me!For I do not forget your law.  
Psa 119:154 Fight for me and defend me! Revive me with your word!  
Psa 119:155 The wicked have no chance for deliverance, for they do not seek your statutes.  
Psa 119:156 Your compassion is great, O Lord.Revive me, as you typically do! 
Psa 119:157 The enemies who chase me are numerous. Yet I do not turn aside from your rules.  
Psa 119:158 I take note of the treacherous and despise them,because they do not keep your instructions.  
Psa 119:159 See how I love your precepts!O Lord, revive me with your loyal love!  
Psa 119:160 Your instructions are totally reliable;all your just regulations endure.  
Psa 119:161 שׂ/שׁ (Sin/Shin)Rulers pursue me for no reason,yet I am more afraid of disobeying your instructions.  
Psa 119:162 I rejoice in your instructions,like one who finds much plunder.  
Psa 119:163 I hate and despise deceit;I love your law.  
Psa 119:164 Seven times a day I praise youbecause of your just regulations.  
Psa 119:165 Those who love your law are completely secure; nothing causes them to stumble.  
Psa 119:166 I hope for your deliverance, O Lord,and I obey your commands.  
Psa 119:167 I keep your rules;I love them greatly.  
Psa 119:168 I keep your precepts and rules,for you are aware of everything I do. 
Psa 119:169 ת (Tav ) Listen to my cry for help, O Lord!Give me insight by your word!  
Psa 119:170 Listen to my appeal for mercy! Deliver me, as you promised.  
Psa 119:171 May praise flow freely from my lips,for you teach me your statutes.  
Psa 119:172 May my tongue sing about your instructions, for all your commands are just.  
Psa 119:173 May your hand help me,for I choose to obey your precepts.  
Psa 119:174 I long for your deliverance, O Lord;I find delight in your law.  
Psa 119:175 May I live and praise you!May your regulations help me! 
Psa 119:176 I have wandered off like a lost sheep. Come looking for your servant,for I do not forget your commands.  
Psa 120:1 A song of ascents.  In my distress I cried outto the Lord and he answered me. 
Psa 120:2 I said, “O Lord, rescue me from those who lie with their lips and those who deceive with their tongue.  
Psa 120:3 How will he severely punish you,you deceptive talker?  
Psa 120:4 Here’s how! With the sharp arrows of warriors,with arrowheads forged over the hot coals.  
Psa 120:5 How miserable I am! For I have lived temporarily in Meshech;I have resided among the tents of Kedar.  
Psa 120:6 For too long I have had to residewith those who hate peace.  
Psa 120:7 I am committed to peace,  but when I speak, they want to make war.  
Psa 121:1 A song of ascents.  I look up toward the hills.From where does my help come?  
Psa 121:2 My help comes from the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth!  
Psa 121:3 May he not allow your foot to slip!May your protector not sleep!  
Psa 121:4 Look! Israel’s protector does not sleep or slumber!  
Psa 121:5 The Lord is your protector;the Lord is the shade at your right hand.  
Psa 121:6 The sun will not harm you by day,or the moon by night.  
Psa 121:7 The Lord will protect you from all harm;he will protect your life.  
Psa 121:8 The Lord will protect you in all you do, now and forevermore.  
Psa 122:1 A song of ascents, by David. I was glad because they said to me,“We will go to the Lord’s temple.”  
Psa 122:2 Our feet are standinginside your gates, O Jerusalem.  
Psa 122:3 Jerusalem is a city designedto accommodate an assembly. 
Psa 122:4 The tribes go up there, the tribes of the Lord,where it is required that Israelgive thanks to the name of the Lord.  
Psa 122:5 Indeed, the leaders sit there on thrones and make legal decisions,on the thrones of the house of David.  
Psa 122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem!May those who love her prosper!  
Psa 122:7 May there be peace inside your defenses,and prosperity inside your fortresses!  
Psa 122:8 For the sake of my brothers and my neighborsI will say, “May there be peace in you!” 
Psa 122:9 For the sake of the temple of the Lord our GodI will pray for you to prosper.  
Psa 123:1 A song of ascents.  I look up toward you,the one enthroned in heaven.  
Psa 123:2 Look,  as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master,as the eyes of a female servant look to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes will look to the Lord, our God, until he shows us favor. 
Psa 123:3 Show us favor, O Lord, show us favor!For we have had our fill of humiliation, and then some.  
Psa 123:4 We have had our fill of the taunts of the self-assured,of the contempt of the proud.  
Psa 124:1 A song of ascents, by David. “If the Lord had not been on our side” – let Israel say this! – 
Psa 124:2 if the Lord had not been on our side,when men attacked us,  
Psa 124:3 they would have swallowed us alive,when their anger raged against us. 
Psa 124:4 The water would have overpowered us;the current would have overwhelmed us.  
Psa 124:5 The raging waterwould have overwhelmed us.  
Psa 124:6 The Lord deserves praise, for he did not hand us over as prey to their teeth.  
Psa 124:7 We escaped with our lives, like a bird from a hunter’s snare.The snare broke, and we escaped.  
Psa 124:8 Our deliverer is the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth.  
Psa 125:1 A song of ascents.  Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion,which cannot be moved and will endure forever.  
Psa 125:2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people,now and forevermore.  
Psa 125:3 Indeed, the scepter of a wicked king will not settle upon the allotted land of the godly.Otherwise the godly mightdo what is wrong.  
Psa 125:4 Do good, O Lord, to those who are good,to the morally upright!  
Psa 125:5 As for those who are bent on traveling a sinful path, may the Lord remove them, along with those who behave wickedly! May Israel experience peace!  
Psa 126:1 A song of ascents.  When the Lord restored the well-being of Zion, we thought we were dreaming.  
Psa 126:2 At that time we laughed loudlyand shouted for joy. At that time the nations said, “The Lord has accomplished great things for these people.” 
Psa 126:3 The Lord did indeed accomplish great things for us.We were happy.  
Psa 126:4 O Lord, restore our well-being,just as the streams in the arid south are replenished. 
Psa 126:5 Those who shed tears as they plantwill shout for joy when they reap the harvest. 
Psa 126:6 The one who weeps as he walks along, carrying his bag of seed,will certainly come in with a shout of joy, carrying his sheaves of grain. 
Psa 127:1 A song of ascents, by Solomon. If the Lord does not build a house, then those who build it work in vain.If the Lord does not guard a city, then the watchman stands guard in vain.  
Psa 127:2 It is vain for you to rise early, come home late,and work so hard for your food. Yes, he provides for those whom he loves even when they sleep.  
Psa 127:3 Yes, sons are a gift from the Lord,the fruit of the womb is a reward.  
Psa 127:4 Sons born during one’s youthare like arrows in a warrior’s hand.  
Psa 127:5 How blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them!They will not be put to shame when they confront enemies at the city gate.  
Psa 128:1 A song of ascents.  How blessed is every one of the Lord’s loyal followers, each one who keeps his commands!  
Psa 128:2 You will eat what you worked so hard to grow. You will be blessed and secure.  
Psa 128:3 Your wife will be like a fruitful vine in the inner rooms of your house;your children will be like olive branches,as they sit all around your table.  
Psa 128:4 Yes indeed, the man who fears the Lordwill be blessed in this way.  
Psa 128:5 May the Lord bless you from Zion,that you might see Jerusalem prosperall the days of your life,  
Psa 128:6 and that you might see your grandchildren. May Israel experience peace!  
Psa 129:1 A song of ascents.  “Since my youth they have often attacked me,”let Israel say.  
Psa 129:2  “Since my youth they have often attacked me,but they have not defeated me. 
Psa 129:3 The plowers plowed my back;they made their furrows long.  
Psa 129:4 The Lord is just;he cut the ropes of the wicked.”  
Psa 129:5 May all who hate Zionbe humiliated and turned back!  
Psa 129:6 May they be like the grass on the rooftopswhich withers before one can even pull it up,  
Psa 129:7 which cannot fill the reaper’s hand,or the lap of the one who gathers the grain!  
Psa 129:8 Those who pass by will not say, “May you experience the Lord’s blessing!We pronounce a blessing on you in the name of the Lord. 
Psa 130:1 A song of ascents.  From the deep water I cry out to you, O Lord.  
Psa 130:2 O Lord, listen to me! Pay attention to my plea for mercy! 
Psa 130:3 If you, O Lord, were to keep track of sins,O Lord, who could stand before you? 
Psa 130:4 But you are willing to forgive, so that you might be honored.  
Psa 130:5 I rely on the Lord,I rely on him with my whole being; I wait for his assuring word.  
Psa 130:6 I yearn for the Lord, more than watchmen do for the morning,yes, more than watchmen do for the morning.  
Psa 130:7 O Israel, hope in the Lord,for the Lord exhibits loyal love, and is more than willing to deliver.  
Psa 130:8 He will deliver Israelfrom all their sins.  
Psa 131:1 A song of ascents, by David. O Lord, my heart is not proud,nor do I have a haughty look. I do not have great aspirations,or concern myself with things that are beyond me.  
Psa 131:2 Indeed, I have calmed and quieted myself like a weaned child with its mother; I am content like a young child.  
Psa 131:3 O Israel, hope in the Lordnow and forevermore!  
Psa 132:1 A song of ascents.  O Lord, for David’s sake rememberall his strenuous effort, 
Psa 132:2 and how he made a vow to the Lord,and swore an oath to the Powerful One of Jacob.  
Psa 132:3 He said, “I will not enter my own home, or get into my bed.  
Psa 132:4 I will not allow my eyes to sleep,or my eyelids to slumber,  
Psa 132:5 until I find a place for the Lord,a fine dwelling place for the Powerful One of Jacob.”  
Psa 132:6 Look,  we heard about it in Ephrathah, we found it in the territory of Jaar.  
Psa 132:7 Let us go to his dwelling place!Let us worship before his footstool!  
Psa 132:8 Ascend,  O Lord, to your resting place,you and the ark of your strength!  
Psa 132:9 May your priests be clothed with integrity! May your loyal followers shout for joy! 
Psa 132:10 For the sake of David, your servant,do not reject your chosen king!  
Psa 132:11 The Lord made a reliable promise to David; he will not go back on his word. He said, “I will place one of your descendants on your throne.  
Psa 132:12 If your sons keep my covenantand the rules I teach them,their sons will also sit on your throne forever.”  
Psa 132:13 Certainly the Lord has chosen Zion;he decided to make it his home.  
Psa 132:14 He said, “This will be my resting place forever;I will live here, for I have chosen it. 
Psa 132:15 I will abundantly supply what she needs; I will give her poor all the food they need.  
Psa 132:16 I will protect her priests, and her godly people will shout exuberantly.  
Psa 132:17 There I will make David strong; I have determined that my chosen king’s dynasty will continue. 
Psa 132:18 I will humiliate his enemies, and his crown will shine.  
Psa 133:1 A song of ascents, by David. Look! How good and how pleasant it iswhen brothers truly live in unity!  
Psa 133:2 It is like fine oil poured on the headwhich flows down the beard – Aaron’s beard,and then flows down his garments.  
Psa 133:3 It is like the dew of Hermon, which flows down upon the hills of Zion. Indeed, that is where the Lord has decreeda blessing will be available – eternal life.  
Psa 134:1 A song of ascents.  Attention! Praise the Lord,all you servants of the Lord,who serve in the Lord’s temple during the night.  
Psa 134:2 Lift your hands toward the sanctuaryand praise the Lord!  
Psa 134:3 May the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth, bless you from Zion!  
Psa 135:1 Praise the Lord!Praise the name of the Lord!Offer praise, you servants of the Lord,  
Psa 135:2 who serve in the Lord’s temple,in the courts of the temple of our God.  
Psa 135:3 Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good!Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant!  
Psa 135:4 Indeed, the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself,Israel to be his special possession.  
Psa 135:5 Yes, I know the Lord is great,and our Lord is superior to all gods.  
Psa 135:6 He does whatever he pleasesin heaven and on earth,in the seas and all the ocean depths.  
Psa 135:7 He causes the clouds to arise from the end of the earth,makes lightning bolts accompany the rain,and brings the wind out of his storehouses.  
Psa 135:8 He struck down the firstborn of Egypt,including both men and animals.  
Psa 135:9 He performed awesome deeds and acts of judgment in your midst, O Egypt,against Pharaoh and all his servants.  
Psa 135:10 He defeated many nations,and killed mighty kings – 
Psa 135:11 Sihon,  king of the Amorites,and Og, king of Bashan,and all the kingdoms of Canaan.  
Psa 135:12 He gave their land as an inheritance,as an inheritance to Israel his people.  
Psa 135:13 O Lord, your name endures, your reputation, O Lord, lasts.  
Psa 135:14 For the Lord vindicates his people,and has compassion on his servants.  
Psa 135:15 The nations’ idols are made of silver and gold,they are man-made. 
Psa 135:16 They have mouths, but cannot speak,eyes, but cannot see,  
Psa 135:17 and ears, but cannot hear.Indeed, they cannot breathe.  
Psa 135:18 Those who make them will end up like them,as will everyone who trusts in them. 
Psa 135:19 O family of Israel, praise the Lord!O family of Aaron, praise the Lord!  
Psa 135:20 O family of Levi, praise the Lord!You loyal followers of the Lord, praise the Lord!  
Psa 135:21 The Lord deserves praise in Zion – he who dwells in Jerusalem. Praise the Lord!  
Psa 136:1 Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good,for his loyal love endures.  
Psa 136:2 Give thanks to the God of gods,for his loyal love endures.  
Psa 136:3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:4 to the one who performs magnificent, amazing deeds all by himself,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:5 to the one who used wisdom to make the heavens,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:6 to the one who spread out the earth over the water,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:7 to the one who made the great lights,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:8 the sun to rule by day,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:9 the moon and stars to rule by night,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:10 to the one who struck down the firstborn of Egypt,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:11 and led Israel out from their midst,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:12 with a strong hand and an outstretched arm,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:13 to the one who divided the Red Sea in two, for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:14 and led Israel through its midst,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:15 and tossed Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:16 to the one who led his people through the wilderness,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:17 to the one who struck down great kings,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:18 and killed powerful kings,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:19 Sihon,  king of the Amorites,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:20 Og,  king of Bashan,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:21 and gave their land as an inheritance,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:22 as an inheritance to Israel his servant,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:23 to the one who remembered us when we were down, for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:24 and snatched us away from our enemies,for his loyal love endures,  
Psa 136:25 to the one who gives food to all living things, for his loyal love endures.  
Psa 136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven,for his loyal love endures!  
Psa 137:1 By the rivers of Babylonwe sit down and weep when we remember Zion.  
Psa 137:2 On the poplars in her midstwe hang our harps,  
Psa 137:3 for there our captors ask us to compose songs; those who mock us demand that we be happy, saying: “Sing for us a song about Zion!”  
Psa 137:4 How can we sing a song to the Lordin a foreign land?  
Psa 137:5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem,may my right hand be crippled!  
Psa 137:6 May my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth,if I do not remember you,and do not give Jerusalem priorityover whatever gives me the most joy.  
Psa 137:7 Remember,  O Lord, what the Edomites didon the day Jerusalem fell. They said, “Tear it down, tear it down, right to its very foundation!”  
Psa 137:8 O daughter Babylon, soon to be devastated! How blessed will be the one who repays youfor what you dished out to us!  
Psa 137:9 How blessed will be the one who grabs your babiesand smashes them on a rock!  
Psa 138:1 By David. I will give you thanks with all my heart;before the heavenly assembly I will sing praises to you. 
Psa 138:2 I will bow down toward your holy temple,and give thanks to your name,because of your loyal love and faithfulness,for you have exalted your promise above the entire sky.  
Psa 138:3 When I cried out for help, you answered me.You made me bold and energized me. 
Psa 138:4 Let all the kings of the earth give thanks to you, O Lord,when they hear the words you speak.  
Psa 138:5 Let them sing about the Lord’s deeds, for the Lord’s splendor is magnificent.  
Psa 138:6 Though the Lord is exalted, he looks after the lowly,and humbles the proud from far away.  
Psa 138:7 Even when I must walk in the midst of danger, you revive me.You oppose my angry enemies, and your right hand delivers me. 
Psa 138:8 The Lord avenges me. O Lord, your loyal love endures.Do not abandon those whom you have made!  
Psa 139:1 For the music director, a psalm of David. O Lord, you examine me and know.  
Psa 139:2 You know when I sit down and when I get up;even from far away you understand my motives.  
Psa 139:3 You carefully observe me when I travel or when I lie down to rest; you are aware of everything I do. 
Psa 139:4 Certainly my tongue does not frame a wordwithout you, O Lord, being thoroughly aware of it. 
Psa 139:5 You squeeze me in from behind and in front;you place your hand on me. 
Psa 139:6 Your knowledge is beyond my comprehension;it is so far beyond me, I am unable to fathom it. 
Psa 139:7 Where can I go to escape your Spirit?Where can I flee to escape your presence?  
Psa 139:8 If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there.If I were to sprawl out in Sheol, there you would be. 
Psa 139:9 If I were to fly away on the wings of the dawn, and settle down on the other side of the sea,  
Psa 139:10 even there your hand would guide me,your right hand would grab hold of me. 
Psa 139:11 If I were to say, “Certainly the darkness will cover me, and the light will turn to night all around me,” 
Psa 139:12 even the darkness is not too dark for you to see, and the night is as bright as day;darkness and light are the same to you. 
Psa 139:13 Certainly you made my mind and heart; you wove me together in my mother’s womb.  
Psa 139:14 I will give you thanks because your deeds are awesome and amazing. You knew me thoroughly;  
Psa 139:15 my bones were not hidden from you,when I was made in secretand sewed together in the depths of the earth.  
Psa 139:16 Your eyes saw me when I was inside the womb. All the days ordained for mewere recorded in your scrollbefore one of them came into existence. 
Psa 139:17 How difficult it is for me to fathom your thoughts about me, O God! How vast is their sum total! 
Psa 139:18 If I tried to count them,they would outnumber the grains of sand.Even if I finished counting them,I would still have to contend with you. 
Psa 139:19 If only you would kill the wicked, O God!Get away from me, you violent men!  
Psa 139:20 They rebel against you and act deceitfully; your enemies lie.  
Psa 139:21 O Lord, do I not hate those who hate you,and despise those who oppose you? 
Psa 139:22 I absolutely hate them, they have become my enemies!  
Psa 139:23 Examine me, O God, and probe my thoughts! Test me, and know my concerns!  
Psa 139:24 See if there is any idolatrous way in me,and lead me in the everlasting way!  
Psa 140:1 For the music director; a psalm of David. O Lord, rescue me from wicked men! Protect me from violent men,  
Psa 140:2 who plan ways to harm me. All day long they stir up conflict. 
Psa 140:3 Their tongues wound like a serpent; a viper’s venom is behind their lips. (Selah) 
Psa 140:4 O Lord, shelter me from the power of the wicked!Protect me from violent men,who plan to knock me over. 
Psa 140:5 Proud men hide a snare for me;evil men spread a net by the path;they set traps for me. (Selah) 
Psa 140:6 I say to the Lord, “You are my God.”O Lord, pay attention to my plea for mercy! 
Psa 140:7 O Sovereign Lord, my strong deliverer, you shield my head in the day of battle.  
Psa 140:8 O Lord, do not let the wicked have their way! Do not allow their plan to succeed when they attack! (Selah) 
Psa 140:9 As for the heads of those who surround me – may the harm done by their lips overwhelm them! 
Psa 140:10 May he rain down fiery coals upon them!May he throw them into the fire!From bottomless pits they will not escape.  
Psa 140:11 A slanderer will not endure on the earth;calamity will hunt down a violent man and strike him down.  
Psa 140:12 I know that the Lord defends the cause of the oppressedand vindicates the poor.  
Psa 140:13 Certainly the godly will give thanks to your name;the morally upright will live in your presence.  
Psa 141:1 A psalm of David. O Lord, I cry out to you. Come quickly to me!Pay attention to me when I cry out to you! 
Psa 141:2 May you accept my prayer like incense,my uplifted hands like the evening offering!  
Psa 141:3 O Lord, place a guard on my mouth!Protect the opening of my lips!  
Psa 141:4 Do not let me have evil desires, or participate in sinful activitieswith men who behave wickedly. I will not eat their delicacies.  
Psa 141:5 May the godly strike me in love and correct me!May my head not refuse choice oil! Indeed, my prayer is a witness against their evil deeds. 
Psa 141:6 They will be thrown down the side of a cliff by their judges. They will listen to my words, for they are pleasant.  
Psa 141:7 As when one plows and breaks up the soil, so our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol.  
Psa 141:8 Surely I am looking to you, O Sovereign Lord.In you I take shelter.Do not expose me to danger!  
Psa 141:9 Protect me from the snare they have laid for me,and the traps the evildoers have set.  
Psa 141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets,while I escape. 
Psa 142:1 A well-written song by David, when he was in the cave; a prayer. To the Lord I cry out; to the Lord I plead for mercy.  
Psa 142:2 I pour out my lament before him;I tell him about my troubles.  
Psa 142:3 Even when my strength leaves me, you watch my footsteps. In the path where I walkthey have hidden a trap for me. 
Psa 142:4 Look to the right and see!No one cares about me. I have nowhere to run; no one is concerned about my life.  
Psa 142:5 I cry out to you, O Lord;I say, “You are my shelter,my security in the land of the living.”  
Psa 142:6 Listen to my cry for help,for I am in serious trouble! Rescue me from those who chase me,for they are stronger than I am. 
Psa 142:7 Free me from prison,that I may give thanks to your name.Because of me the godly will assemble, for you will vindicate me. 
Psa 143:1 A psalm of David. O Lord, hear my prayer!Pay attention to my plea for help!Because of your faithfulness and justice, answer me! 
Psa 143:2 Do not sit in judgment on your servant,for no one alive is innocent before you. 
Psa 143:3 Certainly my enemies chase me.They smash me into the ground. They force me to live in dark regions, like those who have been dead for ages.  
Psa 143:4 My strength leaves me; I am absolutely shocked.  
Psa 143:5 I recall the old days; I meditate on all you have done;I reflect on your accomplishments. 
Psa 143:6 I spread my hands out to you in prayer; my soul thirsts for you in a parched land.(Selah)  
Psa 143:7 Answer me quickly, Lord!My strength is fading. Do not reject me, or I will join those descending into the grave.  
Psa 143:8 May I hear about your loyal love in the morning, for I trust in you.Show me the way I should go, because I long for you.  
Psa 143:9 Rescue me from my enemies, O Lord!I run to you for protection.  
Psa 143:10 Teach me to do what pleases you, for you are my God.May your kind presence lead me into a level land.  
Psa 143:11 O Lord, for the sake of your reputation, revive me! Because of your justice, rescue me from trouble!  
Psa 143:12 As a demonstration of your loyal love, destroy my enemies!Annihilate all who threaten my life, for I am your servant.  
Psa 144:1 By David. The Lord, my protector, deserves praise – the one who trains my hands for battle, and my fingers for war,  
Psa 144:2 who loves me and is my stronghold,my refuge and my deliverer,my shield and the one in whom I take shelter,who makes nations submit to me. 
Psa 144:3 O Lord, of what importance is the human race, that you should notice them?Of what importance is mankind, that you should be concerned about them? 
Psa 144:4 People are like a vapor,their days like a shadow that disappears.  
Psa 144:5 O Lord, make the sky sink and come down! Touch the mountains and make them smolder!  
Psa 144:6 Hurl lightning bolts and scatter them!Shoot your arrows and rout them! 
Psa 144:7 Reach down from above!Grab me and rescue me from the surging water, from the power of foreigners,  
Psa 144:8 who speak lies,and make false promises.  
Psa 144:9 O God, I will sing a new song to you!Accompanied by a ten-stringed instrument, I will sing praises to you, 
Psa 144:10 the one who delivers kings,and rescued David his servant from a deadly sword.  
Psa 144:11 Grab me and rescue me from the power of foreigners, who speak lies,and make false promises.  
Psa 144:12 Then our sons will be like plants,that quickly grow to full size. Our daughters will be like corner pillars, carved like those in a palace.  
Psa 144:13 Our storehouses will be full,providing all kinds of food. Our sheep will multiply by the thousandsand fill our pastures.  
Psa 144:14 Our cattle will be weighted down with produce. No one will break through our walls,no one will be taken captive,and there will be no terrified cries in our city squares.  
Psa 144:15 How blessed are the people who experience these things! How blessed are the people whose God is the Lord!  
Psa 145:1 A psalm of praise, by David. I will extol you, my God, O king!I will praise your name continually!  
Psa 145:2 Every day I will praise you!I will praise your name continually!  
Psa 145:3 The Lord is great and certainly worthy of praise!No one can fathom his greatness!  
Psa 145:4 One generation will praise your deeds to another,and tell about your mighty acts! 
Psa 145:5 I will focus on your honor and majestic splendor,and your amazing deeds!  
Psa 145:6 They will proclaim the power of your awesome acts!I will declare your great deeds!  
Psa 145:7 They will talk about the fame of your great kindness, and sing about your justice.  
Psa 145:8 The Lord is merciful and compassionate;he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.  
Psa 145:9 The Lord is good to all,and has compassion on all he has made.  
Psa 145:10 All your works will give thanks to you, Lord.Your loyal followers will praise you. 
Psa 145:11 They will proclaim the splendor of your kingdom;they will tell about your power,  
Psa 145:12 so that mankind might acknowledge your mighty acts,and the majestic splendor of your kingdom.  
Psa 145:13 Your kingdom is an eternal kingdom, and your dominion endures through all generations.  
Psa 145:14  The Lord supports all who fall,and lifts up all who are bent over. 
Psa 145:15 Everything looks to you in anticipation, and you provide them with food on a regular basis.  
Psa 145:16 You open your hand,and fill every living thing with the food they desire.  
Psa 145:17 The Lord is just in all his actions, and exhibits love in all he does.  
Psa 145:18 The Lord is near all who cry out to him,all who cry out to him sincerely.  
Psa 145:19 He satisfies the desire of his loyal followers; he hears their cry for help and delivers them. 
Psa 145:20 The Lord protects all those who love him,but he destroys all the wicked.  
Psa 145:21 My mouth will praise the Lord. Let all who live praise his holy name forever!  
Psa 146:1 Praise the Lord!Praise the Lord, O my soul!  
Psa 146:2 I will praise the Lord as long as I live!I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist!  
Psa 146:3 Do not trust in princes,or in human beings, who cannot deliver!  
Psa 146:4 Their life’s breath departs, they return to the ground;on that day their plans die.  
Psa 146:5 How blessed is the one whose helper is the God of Jacob,whose hope is in the Lord his God,  
Psa 146:6 the one who made heaven and earth,the sea, and all that is in them,who remains forever faithful,  
Psa 146:7 vindicates the oppressed, and gives food to the hungry.The Lord releases the imprisoned.  
Psa 146:8 The Lord gives sight to the blind.The Lord lifts up all who are bent over. The Lord loves the godly.  
Psa 146:9 The Lord protects the resident foreigner;he lifts up the fatherless and the widow, but he opposes the wicked.  
Psa 146:10 The Lord rules forever,your God, O Zion, throughout the generations to come! Praise the Lord!  
Psa 147:1 Praise the Lord,for it is good to sing praises to our God!Yes, praise is pleasant and appropriate!  
Psa 147:2 The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem, and gathers the exiles of Israel.  
Psa 147:3 He heals the brokenhearted,and bandages their wounds.  
Psa 147:4 He counts the number of the stars;he names all of them. 
Psa 147:5 Our Lord is great and has awesome power; there is no limit to his wisdom.  
Psa 147:6 The Lord lifts up the oppressed,but knocks the wicked to the ground.  
Psa 147:7 Offer to the Lord a song of thanks! Sing praises to our God to the accompaniment of a harp!  
Psa 147:8 He covers the sky with clouds,provides the earth with rain,and causes grass to grow on the hillsides.  
Psa 147:9 He gives food to the animals,and to the young ravens when they chirp.  
Psa 147:10 He is not enamored with the strength of a horse,nor is he impressed by the warrior’s strong legs.  
Psa 147:11 The Lord takes delight in his faithful followers, and in those who wait for his loyal love.  
Psa 147:12 Extol the Lord, O Jerusalem!Praise your God, O Zion!  
Psa 147:13 For he makes the bars of your gates strong.He blesses your children within you. 
Psa 147:14 He brings peace to your territory. He abundantly provides for you the best grain.  
Psa 147:15 He sends his command through the earth; swiftly his order reaches its destination.  
Psa 147:16 He sends the snow that is white like wool;he spreads the frost that is white like ashes.  
Psa 147:17 He throws his hailstones like crumbs.Who can withstand the cold wind he sends? 
Psa 147:18 He then orders it all to melt; he breathes on it, and the water flows.  
Psa 147:19 He proclaims his word to Jacob,his statutes and regulations to Israel.  
Psa 147:20 He has not done so with any other nation;they are not aware of his regulations.Praise the Lord!  
Psa 148:1 Praise the Lord!Praise the Lord from the sky!Praise him in the heavens!  
Psa 148:2 Praise him, all his angels! Praise him, all his heavenly assembly! 
Psa 148:3 Praise him, O sun and moon!Praise him, all you shiny stars!  
Psa 148:4 Praise him, O highest heaven,and you waters above the sky!  
Psa 148:5 Let them praise the name of the Lord,for he gave the command and they came into existence.  
Psa 148:6 He established them so they would endure; he issued a decree that will not be revoked. 
Psa 148:7 Praise the Lord from the earth,you sea creatures and all you ocean depths,  
Psa 148:8 O fire and hail, snow and clouds, O stormy wind that carries out his orders,  
Psa 148:9 you mountains and all you hills,you fruit trees and all you cedars,  
Psa 148:10 you animals and all you cattle,you creeping things and birds,  
Psa 148:11 you kings of the earth and all you nations,you princes and all you leaders on the earth,  
Psa 148:12 you young men and young women,you elderly, along with you children!  
Psa 148:13 Let them praise the name of the Lord,for his name alone is exalted;his majesty extends over the earth and sky.  
Psa 148:14 He has made his people victorious, and given all his loyal followers reason to praise – the Israelites, the people who are close to him. Praise the Lord!  
Psa 149:1 Praise the Lord!Sing to the Lord a new song!Praise him in the assembly of the godly!  
Psa 149:2 Let Israel rejoice in their Creator!Let the people of Zion delight in their King! 
Psa 149:3 Let them praise his name with dancing!Let them sing praises to him to the accompaniment of the tambourine and harp!  
Psa 149:4 For the Lord takes delight in his people;he exalts the oppressed by delivering them. 
Psa 149:5 Let the godly rejoice because of their vindication! Let them shout for joy upon their beds!  
Psa 149:6 May the praises of God be in their mouthsand a two-edged sword in their hands,  
Psa 149:7 in order to take revenge on the nations,and punish foreigners.  
Psa 149:8 They bind their kings in chains,and their nobles in iron shackles,  
Psa 149:9 and execute the judgment to which their enemies have been sentenced. All his loyal followers will be vindicated. Praise the Lord!  
Psa 150:1 Praise the Lord!Praise God in his sanctuary!Praise him in the sky, which testifies to his strength!  
Psa 150:2 Praise him for his mighty acts!Praise him for his surpassing greatness!  
Psa 150:3 Praise him with the blast of the horn!Praise him with the lyre and the harp!  
Psa 150:4 Praise him with the tambourine and with dancing!Praise him with stringed instruments and the flute!  
Psa 150:5 Praise him with loud cymbals!Praise him with clanging cymbals!  
Psa 150:6 Let everything that has breath praise the Lord!Praise the Lord!  
